Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, on Thursday accepted to be the running mate to the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar. Atiku earlier on Thursday announced Okowa as his running mate, describing it as a tough decision to make. Delta Governor Ifeanyi Okowa Okowa, who spoke at the party’s headquarters in Abuja, acknowledged that the decision must have been tough for Atiku to make. The competition was between Okowa and the Rivers governor, Nyesom Wike. Okowa in his speech said, “I appreciate the party for having a successful convention. The convention produced a very experienced candidate who could rescue Nigeria from the terrible situation. “I know it was a tough decision to pick me like you (Atiku) said this afternoon. I understand there is great work ahead of us and I know God designed this, and we will work hard for the party’s victory.  “Each and every one of us must support our principal to ensure the party wins in a landslide victory. “And in doing so, we must be committed in our various wards. We need PDP to return to power; we have the answers to the questions of the country. By the grace of God, we will take on the president and win in a landslide, and I wholeheartedly accept the offer.”  Prior to the announcement made by Atiku, he explained that it was a tough decision to arrive at his choice of a running mate, stating that he selected Okowa due to the perceived qualities of the latter in governance and politics.  According to Atiku, the Delta governor possesses the relevant qualities for the position of Vice-President coupled with appropriate experiences in both the legislative and executive arms of governance.  Atiku had noted, “It is a difficult decision that I was called upon to take but I am not afraid to take difficult decisions.  “Someone hoping to lead a complex country such as ours, tough and difficult decisions will remain part of my everyday life, let me, therefore, start this momentous journey with a crucial decision about who among the eminently qualified shortlist will be my running mate.  “Accordingly, let me state that the person who I have chosen as my running mate possesses those identified qualities; he personifies not only the seriousness the current moment represents for our country but also the future that our young people yearn for and also deserve.  “He's a serving governor who has demonstrated in his state and through his conduct that governance is about service to the people. I know that he will not only add excitement to our energized campaign but will also help to bring focus, discipline and stability to our government come 2023.  "I am pleased therefore to announce here my choice of a running mate who will help to lead us to victory next year not only in the presidential elections but also in the governorship and legislative elections. “He will be by my side as I work hard every day to provide people with security, revive our economy, improve education and unite our country, he has both legislative and executive experiences; His Excellency Governor Ifeanyi Authur Okowa."  