Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun, on Friday, 'reacted' to a statement by Bola Tinubu, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress who claimed he made the former a governor.  Tinubu during a meeting with Ogun APC delegates on Thursday stated that but for his input and God Almighty, Dapo wouldn't have been made governor of Ogun State. Governor Dapo Abiodun He boasted, “It’s over 34 years now that I have been serving them, this one sitting behind me (pointing at the governor), Dapo, can he say it that he would have become the governor if not for me. “We were together at the MKO Abiola Stadium, he was intimated, they didn’t want to give him the party’s flag, I was the one that handed the flag to him. He knows that he cannot be the governor without the help of God and my support.  “If he wants to meet God at the right place, he must know that without God and me, he would not have become Governor.”  In a tweet on Friday, Dapo said he had not become a governor by chance nor has the position become his family inheritance, in what appears as a veiled reference to Tinubu's statement.  His tweet reads, “I am not an emperor by any chance and this is not my family inheritance. I am holding this position in trust for all the people of this state and I have vowed to be fair, just and equitable and this is the solemn agreement I made between the Almighty God and myself.”   I am not an emperor by any chance and this is not my family inheritance. I am holding this position in trust for all the people of this state and I have vowed to be fair, just and equitable and this is the solemn agreement I made between the Almighty God and myself. pic.twitter.com/QnC5hltZHU  Tinubu, according to reports, humiliated Dapo as the latter had openly declared support for Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo's presidential bid. Osinbajo is from Ogun State. Meanwhile, both Osinbajo and Tinubu were said to be instrumental to his victory when he battled former Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s anointed candidate, Abdulkabir Akinlade, in the last election.  The Ogun governor had pledged his loyalty to Osinbajo's camp stating that Osinbajo’s academic qualifications as well as his pedigree serving as vice-president make him the best candidate for the presidency.  