The Kaduna State Government has said the helicopter of the Nigeria Air Force which was dispatched to the Kajuru Local Government Area of the state after Sunday's attack, carried out rescue operations.  The Adara Development Association had claimed that on Sunday, bandits attacked communities in the area killing 32 persons while many others were feared to have been kidnapped.  The group also alleged that while bandits were killing in some areas, some of the villagers in Maikori had prepared to repel the attacks when a helicopter appeared and started air strikes against the natives.  The group asked the government to investigate the ownership of the helicopter and members of the crew.  Reacting, the Kaduna State government said the NAF helicopter was there to engage the bandits, debunking claims that it attacked natives.  A statement from the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said that the Kaduna State Government received initial reports from security agencies that bandits attacked the villages of Dogon Noma, Ungwan Sarki and Ungwan Maikori in the Kajuru Local Government Area on Sunday, Daily Post reports.  According to the reports, the bandits stormed the area in large numbers on motorcycles, proceeded to raze several houses and attacked and killed locals.  He said since the attack on Sunday, security agencies and traditional leaders in the locations had been updating the government on the development.  He identified the persons killed and their villages, stating that in Dogon Noman village, those killed were Ahmadu Musa, Audu Dandaura, Akilu Laya, David Wasika, Hajatu Buhari, Nashon Buhari Iliya Yaki, Javan Mairabo, Jackson Adamu and Nasco Victor.  Dutse Gwamna: Joshua Amadi, Gona Isah, Douglas Yakubu, Phineas Joel, Tanimu Umaru, Abody Iliy, Wanzami Halidu, Dogo Aweh, Sunday Shittu, Rejoice Audu, Jedidiah Ayawa Jinkai Pius, Rebecca Ayafa, Ishaya John, Audu Danladi, Jibo Sule, Yakubu Garba and Williams Danbaba.  Ungwan Sarki: Maikasa Kufana, Augustine Bahago.  Ungwan Maikori: Mamiya Maikori. According to him, as the government mourned the gruesome killing and burning of houses in the attacked locations, there were reports that the victims of the attack were killed by terrorists using a helicopter.  He, however, debunked the report, saying that based on the reports received on Sunday, bandits attacked the first two locations and killed 31 citizens, and then headed into Ungwan Maikori, where they killed one person and burnt some houses.  He said an Air Force helicopter (under Operation Whirl Punch) dispatched to the area, had earlier scanned the first two locations and sighted burnt houses and properties on fire.  He added that the helicopter intercepted the bandits at the last location (Ungwan Maikori) and engaged them.  He said it was the arrival of the air asset that deterred the bandits from further attacks on the citizens in the village after the bandits had already killed one local and burnt several houses.  He said several kidnapped victims, including an expatriate abducted at a mining site, were rescued after a fierce engagement with the bandits  According to him, Governor Nasir El-Rufai, on receiving reports of the attack, expressed deep sadness and prayed for the repose of the victims’ souls.