The trial of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu will resume on Tuesday, June 28, at the Federal High Court, Abuja. Kanu's lead counsel, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, warned that security agents must stop harassing those who would come to show solidarity with the IPOB leader at the court.  Ejiofor argued that there had been several high-profile trials involving prominent Nigerians, with supporters thronging the court premises in solidarity, who were not intimidated by the security agencies. This is even as he advised the supporters to be civil in their approach while at the court premises. His statement reads, “We conducted our routine court-Ordered visit to our indefatigable Client - Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu at the DSS Headquarters. "Today’s visit was unique because it was basically to harmonise the final legal strategy for tomorrow’s outing. Onyendu is fully prepared for his Court appearance tomorrow, and he is in good spirit. We are confident that justice will be done tomorrow too. "Onyendu thanked millions of his supporters and UmuChineke for standing shoulder to shoulder with him thus far. However, Onyendu is particularly worried over the continued incarceration of Mrs. Ukamaka Ejezie (Mama Biafra), whose only offence was daring to be in Abuja in solidarity with him. "The legal team is aggressively exploring all permissible legal frameworks to ensure Mama Biafra's release. As you may be aware, the Court has fixed the 20th day of July 2022, for definite hearing of the application we filed for her release. "May we respectfully, use this medium to appeal to Onyendu’s followers, supporters and well-wishers, who intend coming to Court tomorrow in solidarity with Onyendu, to please maintain absolute civility in their conduct, as have always demonstrated. "It is possible you all may not be accommodated within the precinct of the Court, but you could organise yourselves outside the Court premises and remain peaceful, as always. "In the same vein, the Law Enforcement Agencies are reminded once again, that the Court environment is not a police barrack nor an environment reserved for only security operatives. The Court is a public place meant for everyone. "Therefore, we are appealing to the respective law enforcement agencies that will provide security in and around the Court premises tomorrow not to harass, intimidate, and/or arrest innocent civilians for coming to court in solidarity with Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. "May we remind you that we have witnessed several high profile trials involving prominent Nigerians from other divides, where their loved ones thronged the Court premises in solidarity, but nobody was either intimidated, arrested or molested. "A case in hand is the trial of the suspended DCP Abba Kyari, which has continued to witness outrageous number of sympathisers who have never been molested, arrested or intimidated. Therefore, we expect utmost decorum in and around the Court tomorrow. "Dear UmuChineke, please be reminded that your prayers and supplications are impacting positively, and they are needed now, as always. Do not relent until the final victory. "We remain optimistic for a very fruitful outing tomorrow. With God on our side, Victory is assured. The hour has come! "May you all remain richly blessed. Forward ever, in victory and backward never."