The Cross River State government has ordered the dethronement and de-certification of the Obol Lopon of Nko, Obol Etim Ayomobi, in Yakurr and the Clan Head of Oyadama, Ovarr Vincent Erena, in Obubra Local Government Area with immediate effect over a communal clash that led to the death of some soldiers. Soldiers on a peacekeeping operation had allegedly attacked residents of Nko, a community in the Yakurr Local Government Area of the state.  The soldiers had been deployed to the community to ensure peace, following a clash with Oyadama, a neighbouring community, daily Post reports. According to media reports, Nko youths suspected the army of being partial in the matter and allegedly shot an army commander on Saturday evening alongside six other soldiers. Irene Ugbo, the police spokesperson in the state, confirmed that a major was shot. However, in a statement issued by Linus Obogo, the Deputy Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ben Ayade, on Tuesday, the state government ordered Nko community to produce the missing six personnel of the Nigerian Army alive. It was learnt that the state security council presided over by Ayade had been meeting since Monday morning over last weekend’s communal clash between Nko youths in Yakurr LGA and their neighbours, Onyadama community in Abi LGA over a parcel of land. In the statement, the government ordered the army to sustain its operation in Nko community until those behind the shooting of the six military personnel are produced or fished out. The government has further ordered the dethronement and de-certification of the Obol Lopon of Nko, Obol Etim Ayomobi, in Yakurr and the Clan Head of Oyadama, Ovarr Vincent Erena, in Obubra Local Government Area with immediate effect. Obogo said the removal of the two traditional chieftains followed the communal clash. They have also ordered the forfeiture of the land in dispute for the greater public interest. “The ownership of the disputed land has been revoked and taken over by the state government for the overriding public interest,” the statement said.