The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has reiterated that it is not responsible for the ongoing insecurity in the South-East region. A terrorist group, Jamar Ansarul Muslimina fi Biladi Sudan, popularly known as Ansaru, had accused IPOB of killing Muslims in the Southern part of the country.  Ansaru had alleged that the “unknown gunmen” terrorising the South-East were IPOB members. It had also accused the Nnamdi Kanu-led group of killing a pregnant Muslim woman, Harira Jubril, and her four children in Anambra State. “Here are some committers of excess known as IPOB. Look at how they have been killing our comrades these days in the Southern part,” the leader of the group had said in the video. But speaking exclusively with SaharaReporters on Thursday, Emma Powerful, IPOB’s spokesperson said the group would not drag any issue with Ansaru because it was a terrorists organisation. Powerful said the insurgents had failed as their sponsors were preparing to leave the seat of power, adding that “Fulani will regret why they put themselves into this kind of mess because Nigeria is not for them alone.” He also denied the involvement of the group in the killing of a pregnant woman and her four children in Anambra State. Powerful also warned the terrorists group to stay clear of the South East region. He said, “We cannot respond to a terrorists’ organisation like Ansaru. It’s on record that IPOB is not responsible for the numerous attacks and killings. We are also not unknown gunmen and don't know anything about them. “Ansaru terrorists group can continue ranting and putting accusing fingers at IPOB, all Nigerians know that Biafra agitation is peaceful and will remain peaceful until Biafra freedom is totally achieved. “Ansaru terrorists putting accusing fingers on IPOB means that they are uninformed and clueless as what they know is to kill innocent Nigerians and claiming they are protecting Muslims. Muslims does not represent terrorism but these lunatics claimed to be working for the good of Muslims. “IPOB won't drag issue with terrorists because the world knows the difference between IPOB and Ansaru, they only represent terrorism and the whole world is aware of this. “The killing of Muslim pregnant woman and children was not done by IPOB and ESN operatives because that is not our work, we represent peace and freedom not like the demented fellows like Ansaru and other terrorists in the Northern region. “It is important to realise that they have failed because their sponsors are preparing to leave the seats of power and Fulani will regret why they put themselves into this kind of mess because Nigeria is not for them alone. “They can only do that their nonsense activities in the North, if they bring it here, they will regret being a member of Ansaru or any terrorists group, we are waiting for them.”