The European Commission has announced its approval for Ukraine to be granted candidate status.  This was recommended by the commission on Friday morning in the country’s bid to become a member of the European Union, the first formal step in a process that normally lasts longer than a decade.  According to New York Times, The commission also recommended a similar status for Moldova — which applied for membership to the bloc soon after Ukraine, spurred by concerns about Russia’s threats in the region — but not for neighbouring Georgia, which was deemed not ready for E.U. candidacy. It also reported that the ultimate decision will be in the hands of European Union leaders who will meet on June 23 and 24 in Brussels, Belgium to tackle the thorny question.  The move regarding Ukraine took on an air of greater inevitability on Wednesday when Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France joined other leaders visiting Kyiv and publicly announced their unanimous support for Ukraine’s pathway. And Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission’s president, opened Friday’s meeting of E.U. commissioners in Brussels wearing a blue shirt and a yellow blazer, Ukraine’s national colours. New York Times reports that the Commission stressed that Ukraine’s and Moldova’s candidate statuses are tied to overhauls on the rule of law, justice and anti-corruption.  “Starting accession negotiations is further down the line,” Oliver Varhelyi, the bloc’s top official for enlargement, told reporters.  “Today it’s not about that. Once conditions are met, then we’ll have to come back to it and reflect.”  The European Union’s member countries are split between those who believe that even though Ukraine is not technically ready to begin the vast changes required to join the bloc of 27, it should still be granted candidate status as a meaningful gesture of support in its defence against Russian aggression. This, proponents believe, will permit Ukraine’s leaders to illustrate that their nation has a bright future after the war ends, and will also start integrating the country into the bloc, which will be funding much of any reconstruction. Other countries would prefer that Ukraine be given a sort of “candidate light” status: a promise, but with caveats and benchmarks to meet along the way, recognising that its path to full membership will most likely be very lengthy. Those nations think that approach not only is more realistic but also demonstrates integrity toward Ukraine rather than making false assurances. “In the view of the Commission, Ukraine has clearly demonstrated the country’s aspiration and the country’s determination to live up to European values and standards,” Ms. von der Leyen said on Friday, adding that Ukraine had already put in place about 70 percent of E.U. rules, standards and norms.  “We all know that Ukrainians are ready to die for the European perspective,” she added. “We want them to live with us the European dream.”  