Following Sunday’s attack on worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State, schools, on Monday, were shut down as pupils stayed at home.  A source in the area told SaharaReporters that there is palpable fear in the community as parents have refused to release their children/wards to attend school. He, however, said academic activities might resume in the area by the following week.  The source, who lost a relation in the attack, said church activities have also been put on hold for now, particularly as the attackers had targeted a big cathedral in the area.  He said several cult activities have also been going on in the area for a while now, but the bloody attack on a church on Sunday was not expected.  This, he said, will even deter some Christian faithful from attending church services as no one knows the next target of the attackers.  “Several persons died in yesterday's attack and churches don't have security officials. They only have traffic wardens outside.  “Today (Monday), there is no school, the town is calm. My kids are at home, no one will allow their children to go anywhere. Even church, we are putting it on hold for now. I don't think large gatherings will be held anywhere in this place for now because of the fear of being attacked.  “The truth is, these guys are everywhere. I have been saying it, Yorubas gave Shasha to them, they gave Sabo to them and don't be surprised that when security agents check Shasha, there will be AK-47s everywhere. “The truth is that Owo is not peaceful; for a long time now, cult clashes have become the order of the day. If they tell you Owo is peaceful, it's a lie. But we never experienced anything like Sunday’s incident. How can people just enter a church and start shooting at unarmed worshippers?  “Apart from the 2015 armed robbery incident that occurred a day before the presidential election that brought President Muhammadu Buhari to power, we have not had anything like this. Lots of persons were killed, they robbed banks but this is terrorism and it's a very big church.” 