Senior Special Assistant to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, has reacted to reports that his principal was involved in an auto crash.  Osinbajo had earlier set out to leave for Owo, Ondo State from Abuja to condole with the victims of Sunday’s terrorist attack and their families.  On Sunday, terrorists invaded the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, in Owo local government area of Ondo State and killed scores of worshippers. Several others were injured in the attack.  Osinbajo who condemned the attack was said to have started his journey to Owo from Abuja but encountered an auto crash on his way to the airport.  The VP heads out to Owo, (Ondo State this morning) where worshippers were heinously attacked yesterday resulting in many casualties. He will deliver president's condolences and message in person.  Meanwhile, it had been reported that Osinbajo was a victim of the accident. But taking to his Twitter handle on Monday, Akande said his principal only came across the accident scene and stopped to offer help to the victims.  According to him, the victims were taken to the hospital in the ambulance that was part of the VP's convoy, adding that Osinbajo has continued on his journey to Owo.  He tweeted, “The VP heads out to Owo, (Ondo State this morning) where worshippers were heinously attacked yesterday resulting in many casualties. He will deliver president's condolences and message in person."  “On his way to the airport this morning, VP came across a road traffic accident, stopped to lend assistance, & ensured victim was taken to the hospital with VP's convoy ambulance. He then proceeded on his trip and is now in Ondo State heading to the site of yesterday's attack in Owo."   On his way to the airport this morning, VP came across a road traffic accident, stopped to lend assistance, & ensured victim was taken to the hospital with VP's convoy ambulance. He then proceeded on his trip and is now in Ondo State heading to site of yesterday's attack in Owo. 