A young woman identified on Twitter as @Pinkypearl09 has cried out for help after her 10-year-old brother was allegedly raped by one of their neighbours in Port-Harcourt, Rivers State.The lady, who took to her social media handle, lamented that the culprit, a 21-year-old man had raped her brother twice after which he threatened him to keep quiet. She said the case had been reported at the Mile One Police Station but alleged that the Investigating Police Officer identified as Inspector Happiness compromised the matter by receiving bribes from the mother of the alleged rapist.According to her, the mother of the perpetrator helped him run away from Port Harcourt to Cross River State.However, in an update on her social media handle, the young lady said the father of the accused person had been arrested.She tweeted, “Nigerians please I need your help to get justice for my 10 years old younger brother. My younger brother, 10 years old, was raped by a 21 years old boy in my compound in Port Harcourt. He raped him twice, the first one he threatened my brother.”The second time, a boy saw him doing it and reported to my mom; my mom then asked my brother, and that was when opened up and told her everything and that he was scared. We reported the case to the nearest police station; they arrested the boy (culprit) and after 24 hours they released him saying that they could not hold him for more than 24 hours.“We told them to transfer the case to the state CID but they didn't because the boy's mother was going to bribe the IPO. Since this matter started, we have been paying from one thing to the other, the police are covering up the boy. My mom told me that the IPO told her that “why is she lamenting, that after my brother was enjoying the thing.”“Please sir, how can a 10-year-old child enjoy being raped? My mom called me yesterday and was crying. My mom then wrote a petition to the commissioner and then she went to the State CID to report the case, they told her to bring money for them to start the case; she paid money for the registration of the case and opening of file; then they asked her to bring money for mobilisation to send a signal to the old police station to transfer the case.@PinkyPearl09 also shared a picture of the young man with the caption, "This is the boy that has done this evil against my two younger siblings, that's his mother that is bribing police and has run with the boy to Cross Rivers State. The mother of the man has run away with him to Cross Rivers State; their home town; Ikom.”In another tweet, she stated, “Good news my Twitter family, my dad just called me that the father of the suspect has been arrested and will be transferred to state CID. Justice is close; I won't stop fighting until we get justice.“We will still get to the suspect, the boy that raped my brother at least we have his father in police custody.” ,the second one a boy saw him doing it and reported to my mom, my mom then asked my brother that was when opened up and told her everything and that he was scared.We reported the case to the nearest police station they arrested the boy and after 24 hours they released him saying  When SaharaReporters contacted the spokesperson for the Rivers State Police Command, Grace Woyengikuro Iringe-Koko, she simply stated, “We will get back to you on this.”Meanwhile, the Force spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, in response to the tweet said, “The Rivers State Command is on the matter. We will update you, cheers.” The Rivers State Command is on the matter. We will update u cheers  