The Middle Belt Forum, MBF, has said the directive by the Zamfara State Government to the people of the state to get arms to defend themselves is an indication that the Nigerian government is useless. The National President of MBF, Dr. Bitrus Pogu, said this on Monday in Makurdi, Benue State, Vanguard reports. Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara-state He said the directive was a precursor to what would happen in other parts of the country since Nigeria had fallen apart and the people were left with no other choice but to resort to self-help. He said, “The directive by the Zamfara state government that the people should get arms and defend themselves simply means that we have totally lost it. The country is on autopilot, we do not have a government anymore; because we have all reached the state of self-help. "Nobody depends on the security forces anymore to defend anybody. They know where the bandits, insurgents and terrorist are and they are not doing anything.



See Also






Sahara Reporters
Zamfara Government Directs Residents To Buy Guns, Defend Themselves Against Bandits, Orders Police Commissioner To Issue Licences
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “Of course, what else can a leader say? Let’s not even call him Governor, he is a leader, and as a leader, he has given up on governance. And the best thing is forget about the constitutional provisions for protection from government and let’s just defend ourselves. “The country has fallen apart and it just indicates that we are on our own. So it has started in Zamfara, it means the same everywhere. The Zamfara situation is just a precursor to what is going to happen in the country, total anarchy, it’s unfortunate.” SaharaReporters earlier reported that the Zamfara State Government advised the residents of the state to acquire guns to defend themselves against terrorists’ and bandits’ attacks. The directive was contained in a special government announcement signed by the State Commissioner for Information, Hon Ibrahim Magaji Dosara. In the special announcement SaharaReporters obtained on Sunday, the government said it had directed the State Commissioner of Police to issue licences to all those who were qualified and were wishing to obtain such guns to defend themselves. It said that Zamfara State was ready to facilitate people, especially their farmers to secure basic weapons for defending themselves, adding that it would establish a centre for the collection of intelligence on the activities of informants.