Displaced residents of Ogbete-Mgbuji Community in Eha-Amufu, Isi-Uzo Local Government Area of Enugu State have raised the alarm that Fulani militia continued to unleash terror on the community despite promises from the heads of security agencies in the state.The residents told SaharaReporters that barely 11 days after the Commissioner of Police, alongside other heads of security agencies visited the community, three more people were killed while two others were kidnapped for ransom.  Lamenting that the Fulani militias had made life miserable for them, the residents, noted that they had been denied access to their farms, even to harvest their cassava and other crops. SaharaReporters had reported that Fulani herdsmen had been invading the community since late last year, killing people and kidnapping for ransom.Early this month, the bandits killed no fewer than eight residents in their houses, burnt hundreds of houses and sacked 14 farm settlements with over 3000 inhabitants who are now displaced.Following SaharaReporters’ stories, the heads of security agencies in the state had on Friday, June 17, 2022 visited the troubled community where they promised to provide adequate security for them having had firsthand information about the situation.However, 11 days after security was promised to the troubled community, herdsmen were still having a field day with their terror attacks.The spokesman of the community, Elder Kingly Ogenyi, told SaharaReporters on Monday that since the visit of the security Chiefs, three more people had been killed while two were kidnapped which the community paid millions to secure their release.Ogenyi said, "On Friday, the State Commissioner of Police, CP Abubakar Lawal, alongside the State Director, Department of State Services (DSS), H. M. Daluwa; the Commander, 82 Division Garrison Command of the Nigerian Army Enugu, Brig. Gen. M. K. Ibrahim; Commander, 553 Services Base Group of the Nigerian Air Force Enugu, Air Commodore I. A. Taiwo, and other Senior Police Officers visited our community."While addressing our community the Police Commissioner, told our people that they (security agencies) now understood the situation and they were going to take action immediately. That the governor had given them a matching order to bring everything they have to make sure the killings stopped."He promised that they are going to bring their men and equipment the following day being Saturday, 18th of June, 2022. That they are going to mount checkpoints in the settlements. That they are going to bring machines to monitor all the settlements to ensure that nothing happened again, that the end had come."Regrettably, as I am talking to you nothing has happened. No single security personnel in our community. As I am talking to no single person living in the settlements, they have abandoned everything including food, no chance to harvest cassava; let alone cultivating new crops.""The security chiefs just came for show. About two days after their visit, they (Fulani militias) kidnapped people which we paid ransom before they were released. The worst is that nobody goes to the settlement again to farm or even harvest cassava. The displaced people are selling their clothes to eat. There was no form of assistance from anywhere. The situation of our people is terrible."