Members of opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the diaspora under the aegis of Diasporans for PDP, have described the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, as “retired and physically unfit man.” The diaspora of the opposition party drawn from members living in the USA, Canada, United Kingdom, Austria, Germany, South Africa, Sweden, Japan, Spain, Netherlands, amongst other countries, stated that the APC’s choice of Tinubu has shown that the party is retrogressive and is ready to take Nigeria from frying pan to fire.  In a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Chidi Igwe, the organisation said that with the former Lagos State governor as its presidential candidate, it is obvious that the APC is joking with the future of Nigeria. The diaspora group stated that “APC’s choice of a retired, physically unfit man for president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is retrogressive and will leave Nigeria in a worst shape than the country has been under President Muhammadu Buhari, who himself, was retired and physically unfit when he took office eight years ago.” According to them, “The job of a president requires a sound mind, and by what we see today, Former Governor Tinubu is not physically fit, and will not be any different from President Buhari. I think the new name of that party should be All Retrogressive Congress,” says the Diasporans for PDP founder and national chair, Victoria Pamugo. “Every Nigerian has seen how unproductive and backward our country has been in the past eight years just because we have a retired, physically unfit person as president in Aso Rock. Instead of giving Nigerians hope by choosing a young, physically fit, working-class Nigerian as we see in other countries like Canada and France, APC has once again shown that they do not represent the interests of the Nigerian people. Rather, they are just working to satisfy the political aspirations of a few retired men among their ranks,” Pamugo noted. “Is Nigeria really ready to jump from frying pan to fire? APC’s choice of candidate is bad news for our country.” They lamented that “Nigerians have really suffered a lot in the hands of their incompetent, wicked, and nonchalant government under President Buhari and his APC cronies,” says Honourable Pamugo. “These incompetent APC leaders have taken the country more than one hundred years backward.” “Nigerians have no access to good jobs, good healthcare system, good education... We have no electricity, no food, and no good roads. We have no security. Nothing is working in our country. Citizens are frustrated. People are killed on the streets of Nigeria every day and everywhere with reckless abandon. There is no potable water. Inflation is at rates never seen before. We have an abysmal rate of youth unemployment. We have no reliable broadband internet connectivity. All bridges, schools and infrastructure built by our founding fathers are all crumbling as we watch, and no new ones are being built. We have an uncontrollable brain-drain caused by massive exodus as working-class Nigerians migrate to other countries day by day.” “What country can survive with all these vices?” Pamugo questioned rhetorically. “Those are the things at stake in this election. Should Nigeria continue like this? I think the answer is NO in all caps. The key question Nigerians should be asking themselves is why on earth should we give APC another chance to run this country, especially when they have scorned the youth and have continued to choose these retired, physically unfit men for president?” “All that President Buhari and APC have given us in the past eight years is institutionalizing corruption, even as they apply selective justice by using state security agencies to go after their supposed or perceived enemies and political opponents, while at the same time protecting the fat cats that continue to milk the nation through corrupt means.”