The family of Esther Isaac, a young lady who was murdered at the Agete Luxury Hotel in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, has cried out for help after failed attempts to get justice. Isaac on February 25, 2022, lodged in Room 901 at the hotel but was strangled to death by yet-to-be-identified persons. SaharaReporters recalls that the brother of the deceased, Emmanuel alleged that the hotel management mounted pressure on him to accept the sum of N500,000 for the burial arrangements of his sister and forget about the case.Also, he accused the police of being complicit and for doing a shoddy and poor investigation in an attempt to protect the killers. In a recent development, SaharaReporters learnt that the family's quest for justice for the deceased had been frustrated by the police, the National Hospital, Abuja and the management of the hotel. While the corpse still remained in the mortuary, the family requested that the National Hospital, Abuja conduct an autopsy to ascertain the cause of Esther's death but the hospital demanded the payment of N1 million for the autopsy and death certificate.”They were informed that the autopsy would cost a minimum of one million naira (N1 million) and that they must pay the money if they want the autopsy conducted," a source told SaharaReporters. He added, “The FCT Police Command has also been shielding the hotel and its management. The hotel has continued to carry on its business as if nothing happened."The Falana & Falana Chambers, representing the family of the deceased, alleged that there has compromise on the part of the police. In a letter dated April 29, and signed by Marshal Abubakar of the Falana & Falana Chambers, the law firm alleged that “rather than conduct a thorough, proper preliminary investigation, the Gwarimpa Police Command of the Nigeria Police Force, working in connection with the management of the Agete Hotels, Gwarimpa, Abuja has been engaging in all forms of subterfuge and cover-up”. The law firm subsequently requested for the convening of "a coroner's inquest to properly investigate and unravel the circumstances surrounding the death of Miss Esther Isaac Asuquo (deceased)".Abubakar explained that a coroner's inquest is customary and necessary, especially when the death of a person occurs under unexplainable and mysterious circumstances. He added that a coroner's inquest must be conducted by a designated magistrate within the jurisdiction to unravel the circumstances surrounding the death of the deceased.  According to him, in a letter dated April 29, 2022, addressed to the AIG Zone 7, he requested the convening of a coroner's inquest.He, however, stated that in a meeting with some officers under the Command of the AIG, the police categorically informed him that they would not be conducting any coroner's inquest into the questionable, mysterious and suspicious death of Miss Esther Asuquo at the Agete Hotels, Gwarimpa, Abuja.The human rights lawyer thus expressed concern that the police are trying to sweep the murder case under the carpet as another unresolved mysterious death but urged the authorities of the Nigeria Police Force to intervene and stop the indiscriminate killing of young girls for rituals and other purposes. PICTURES: Family Laments After Failed Attempts To Get Justice Four Months After Murder Of Young Lady In Abu... by Sahara Reporters on Scribd 