The Presidential Candidate and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has travelled out of the country to France.  According to his media office, the trip followed a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday morning.  While in Paris, the capital of France, Tinubu will hold some important meetings, his spokesperson, Tunde Rahman said in a statement.  However, multiple sources told SaharaReporters that the APC Presidential candidate was going to Paris to attend to his medical needs.  “What kind of meetings did he want to do in Paris that can’t be done in Lagos or Abuja, he is sick and needs medical attention, the stress of the campaign and primary has affected him,” a source close to the former Lagos governor told SaharaReporters.  In 2021 alone, Tinubu spent over 80 days patronising hospitals in France, United States and the United Kingdom where he underwent surgeries amid the poorly equipped hospitals in Nigeria led by the APC government.  He was flown out of the country some days before Christmas in 2020 to Paris, France.  There were speculations that he tested positive for COVID-19 but his media aide later denied such reports.  The APC leader returned to Nigeria on January 24, 2021, after a month’s absence from Nigeria.  He then went for a medical check-up on Thursday, June 10, 2021, to France and was conspicuously absent from the one-day working visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Lagos State.  "Tinubu is in Paris, France for a medical checkup. His health is deteriorating due to old age," a top source had told SaharaReporters.  Tinubu, amid death rumours, was forced to return to the country on Tuesday, June 15, 2021.  SaharaReporters also reported that Tinubu was hospitalised in Maryland, the United States in July 2021 where he had knee surgery.  “Tinubu is hospitalised in Maryland, US. His health is failing. He couldn’t participate in launching his Arewa library, and he couldn’t participate in the Local Government Area elections last week. He could not attend today’s APC congress due to health reasons.  “He had a surgery last week,” an authoritative source had disclosed at the time.  On August 9, 2021, Tinubu had another knee surgery at the John Hopkins University Hospital in Maryland, the United States.  The APC chieftain, it was learnt, left the US for the United Kingdom on crutches, a few days after the surgery.  Sources close to Tinubu had told SaharaReporters that he wanted the surgery in Paris, France but changed his plan over rumours of his death.  “Tinubu had his second surgery at John Hopkins University in Maryland recently. He was accompanied by a popular Nigerian doctor in Chicago. He had wanted the surgery in Paris but when rumour was rife about his death, he hurriedly left for Nigeria and went to John Hopkins,” one of the sources had said.  "He left the US for the UK on crutches," another source had revealed.  In 2021, the President paid a visit to Tinubu in London and the latter was seen with a walking stick during Buhari’s visit, confirming SaharaReporters’ story that he underwent a second surgery in the United States.  Tinubu currently toes the path of President Buhari, who himself has spent hundreds of days on medical leave in the United Kingdom since he assumed office in 2015. 