The Quick Response Squad of the Nigeria Police has arrested a middle-aged man, identified as Volt Blessing Gabriel for allegedly killing his one-year-old son, named Godspower Gabriel, for ritual purposes. The police spokesperson in the Delta State, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed the arrest made last Thursday.  Edafe said one Mrs Success Oduwa, 24 in Edo State, suddenly realised she had not seen her child since the morning of June 24, 2022, and started troubling the husband as to the whereabouts of the child. He said, "The husband told her that the child is with his sister in Warri. On getting to Warri, she stated that she discovered the husband was lying to her, hence her suspicion. “She reported to the Commander, Quick Response Squad, that she is suspecting her husband named, Volt Blessing Gabriel, aged 33 to have killed their child named Godspower Gabriel, aged one year and eight months for ritual purposes. "The Commander RRS detailed operatives who swung into action arrested the husband and handed him over to the DPO ‘A’ Division Warri for further investigation. “Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed to have murdered the said child at Ewabogun bush by Catholic Road, Benin City, using a handsaw to cut off the head and buried it by a palm tree in the bush and threw away the headless body of the child. “The suspect also stated that he actually killed the child because of a dream he had, where he saw a man who told him that if he kills the child and uses the child’s blood to rub his head, he will become rich. The suspect is in custody.” The police spokesperson also confirmed the arrest of murder and armed robbery suspects. Edafe disclosed that various items were recovered from the hoodlums, adding that investigations had commenced into the various crimes. He said personnel of Delta state police command for Ozoro and Orogun divisions killed three members of an armed robbery gang during a gun battle. It was learnt that a gun battle between the police and the suspected armed robbers led to the arrest of seven members of the gang. He identified some of the arrested persons as Jeffrey Osemudiamen, Eddy Gabriel and Promise Imade of Oghara town, Ethiope West local government area. He said the incident occurred last Tuesday and Wednesday at different times and in different locations in the state. SaharaReporters learnt that the police recovered five locally-made cut-to-size guns, two expended cartridges, one laptop, five live cartridges, one motorcycle, one walkie-talkie set and four android phones, among others from the gang.  