A resident in Amahor town in the Igueben local government area of Edo State has lamented the alleged deceit of Clifford Ordia, the Senator representing Edo Central who reportedly uses the dilapidated condition of the Amahor road to canvass for votes during every election period.  The resident, identified simply as Henry J, accused Ordia and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party of using the road as a political chess game and ignoring the plights of the people who ply the road in its deplorable state.  According to him, the Senator has for years, been pretending to be constructing the Amahor road as a constituency project under the watch of the Niger Delta Development Commission.  He noted that at every election period, the Senator mobilises contractors to the road to make it appear like the job will be done but after the election, they abandon the project.   “Today, to transit from Amahor to Ebelle is as good as walking on the pigsty and this no doubt is what has occasioned the exploitative tendencies of the people by the cyclists (Okada men) to the extent that fare by Okada from Amahor to Ebelle is not less than the sum of N1,000 (One Thousand Naira) as against the sum of N200 (Two Hundred Naira) that it used to be given the short distance of less than 5 (five) minutes’ drive.  “Yet there is a Senator under whose office this plight is disgustingly domiciled. Senator Clifford Odia has for almost 8 years been pretending to be constructing the Amahor road as a constituency project under the watch of the NDDC.  "It has been motion without movement as the Senator often mobilizes contractors, etc. to the road weeks before every election circle and after the election, the contractors disappear into thin air only to return again before the next election doing absolutely nothing.”  Speaking further, Henry said Ordia had also neglected schools in the area, forcing students to study in dilapidated buildings and structures which he describes as 'the exact prototype of repugnancy'.  He said, “The present condition of the educational system in Amahor is jaw-breaking and socioporous.  “How would children be encouraged to learn in that decrepit condition that antagonises the natural instincts to learn.  “No psychoanalytic theory supports that pedagogical disposition except our Senator, Engr Clifford Ordia and his PDP family in Edo State will tell us that Sigmund Freud's theory on that factors influencing learning and intelligence are moribund.  "We are not here to ask the question if the supposedly existing schools still have teachers. This sounds like a pump of pageantry yet the community is completely abandoned under the watch of a serving Senator, Engr. Clifford Ordia.  “This is a shame of travesty and should elicit a kind of self-imposed chagrin from the party. The Amahor community is unnecessarily enmeshed in the vices of lack of accessible roads, lack of functional clinics, abandoned primary and secondary schools and what have you.  "In fact, there is no presence of government in Amahor community and this has occasioned massive rural migration and the community has almost become unliveable.  "The people have been relegated by their own to the purulence of poverty as against the radiance of representation yet the oligarch feels comfortably calm in the oppugnant suits of democratic misrepresentation."  He further urged residents and locals in the Igueben Local Government Area to push out 'that which can no longer be tolerated,' adding that whosoever wants to contest for any office regardless of party ties, must see to the rehabilitation of the Amahor road amid other amenities lacking in the area.  