Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammad Sa'ad Abubakar, has charged Nigerian Muslims to pray against kidnappings and killings by terrorists across the country as they observe 10 days of Dhul-Hijjah, which is the greatest and most sacred days of the Islamic calendar.  Announcing the 1st day of the Dhul-Hijjah, 1443AH on Thursday in a statement, the Sultan also called on Muslim faithful across the country to use the period to give alms and generously reach out to the needy, as well as pray for the 2023 general elections.  According to the statement signed by the Secretary-General of Jama'atu Nasril Islam (JNI), N/Hqtrs., Kaduna State, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, Muslims were further implored to imbibe the spirit of forgiveness and shun any form of act that will attract the anger of Allah (SWT). Aliyu stated that Jama'atu Nasril Islam (JNI), under the leadership of the Sultan of Sokoto, who is also the President-General of the JNI and spiritual leader of all Muslims in Nigeria, “urges the Nigerian Muslim Ummah to utilize properly the days in virtuous acts which has commenced today, Thursday, 30th June, 2022.  “We are equally implored to imbibe the spirit of forgiveness and shun acts that will attract the anger of Allah (SWT). We should all be more generous in alms and seriously engage in supplications for an end to the innumerable challenges facing Nigeria, pray for a blessed downpour and seek His protection from all forms of adversities.”  The Muslims are expected to use this opportunity “to seek Allah's forgiveness, adore and worship Him the more, as well as supplicate fervently for an end to the security cum socio-economic challenges bedeviling the Nation, especially that the 2023 General Elections is fast approaching with a lot of apprehensions and uncertainties.”  The statement added, “The JNI also reiterates its calls to Muslims to fervently pray against the lingering waves of abductions and kidnappings for ransom, as well as repeated attacks on innocent Nigerians. “We recap that these heinous crimes are condemnable, abhorrent and un-Islamic. We must not relent in offering our support to security agencies by providing relevant intelligence tips, in spite of the alleged repercussions sometimes on informants by the mindless criminals and likely unpatriotic elements in the nation's security apparatus.” 