Operatives of the Adamawa State Police Command have apprehended a teenager for allegedly killing a 36-year-old nursing mother identified as Talatu Alh Usman and her one-year-old child.  This was contained in a statement issued on Wednesday by the Command's spokesperson, Suleiman Nguroje.  According to the statement, the 18-year-old suspect, Volamu Kalbes attacked Usman by the riverside, where she went to take her bath alongside her child.  Kalbes had attempted to rape Usman but was unsuccessful at it and thereafter drowned the mother and child. The incident occurred in the Lamurde Local Government Area of the state.  Suleiman said, “The Adamawa State Police Command on the 6/6/2022 apprehended an 18-year-old suspect for the brutal murder of one Talatu Alh. Usman, 36 years old and her one-year-old child in Lamurde LGA.  “Both suspect Volamu Kalbes and the victims are residents of Sabon Layi village in Lamurde LGA.  “The suspect allegedly attacked the victim by the riverside where she went to take bath alongside her child.  “The victim was said to have resisted an attempt by the suspect to rape her but to no avail, as he overpowered her as a result of which he subdued and pressed her down into the water where she died.  “As if this was not enough, the suspect took the child, who was crying uncontrollably on the riverbank and pressed him into the water until he became lifeless.  “On the strength of that, the suspect was arrested by the command operatives attached to Lamurde divisional police headquarters following a report received by the victim’s husband, Alh. Usman Abdul, who is distraught over the loss of his wife and child.  “The Commissioner of Police CP SK Akande, having directed for a more discreet investigation into the matter; however, ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of SCID to take over the investigation.  “He equally called on the members of the public to desist from all criminal acts as the police will not relent in bringing to book anyone found violating the laws of the land. The Police Boss assured the government and good people of Adamawa state of his determination towards ensuring that the law takes its course."