Special counsel to Nnamdi Kanu, the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Aloy Ejimakor, has demanded the release of his client from the detention of the Department of State Services (DSS) custody, one year after his arrest. Ejimakor, who made the demand on his Twitter page, said that Kanu’s extraordinary rendition was legally and politically wrong and therefore, the prosecution must be stopped and Kanu freed.  Recall that Kanu was intercepted in Kenya and returned to Nigeria on June 19, 2021 by the Nigerian government in collaboration with Interpol for the continuation of his trial on treasonable felony charges. Ejimakor wrote, “It came to pass that one year ago, (June 19,2021) an extraordinary rendition was committed. It was a day that will live in infamy because it was an extraordinary abomination. “It was a legal wrong. It was a political wrong. And it must be undone. Stop the persecution and free Nnamdi Kanu.” As the Father's Day was celebrated on Sunday, Kanu’s family expressed displeasure that rather than spending the day with his children and family, he spent it in the DSS custody. Aligning with Ejimakor’s call, the younger brother to the IPOB leader, Emma Kanu, said, “I am feeling sad today. This is a year today since he was kidnapped and brought back to Nigeria. “The question is, ‘Has anything changed?’ The answer is, ‘No’. This is because the impression before now is that Nnamdi Kanu is part of the problems in Nigeria, whereas he is part of the solution and not part of the problem. “It is better that the Federal Government understands that Nnamdi Kanu is a force to work with and not a force to jettison. The earlier they understand this, the better for you and I.” He wished his brother, Nnamdi Kanu a Happy Fathers’ Day “there in DSS detention”, adding that “the federal government should have a reasonable thought to free Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. This is because the man has done nothing wrong before God and mankind. “What Nnamdi Kanu stands for is about transparency, equity, and wellbeing of everybody. He is not against anybody in Nigeria, be you Hausa, Fulani, Igbo, wherever you come from, North or south. “He is focused on the condition and constitution of this country that is affecting you and me and until we see change, I assure you, nobody is going to back off from this particular job.”