The Kwara State Police Command has said it detained a man identified as Jimoh AbdulFatai and four of his other friends for allegedly assaulting his girlfriend, Ayomide Afolayan, over claims that she cheated on him. This was disclosed in a statement issued by SP Okasanmi Ajayi, the Police Public Relations Officer of the state command on Thursday.  Okasanmi said that the suspects pleaded guilty to the allegation and had been detained pending the period of their trial.  SaharaReporters gathered that Ayomide, a student of the Bartholomew College of Health, Kwara State, was said to have been invited to Fatai’s residence. According to a viral video clip seen by SaharaReporters, when Ayomide arrived at the house, she met Fatai and his four friends, who started interrogating her.   The friends were said to have accused the lady of cheating on Fatai despite what he had done for her. Then, they grabbed her hands and legs and flogged her. After the assault, Ayomide reportedly took to her WhatsApp status to share her ordeal and a video of the incident, which was made by the abusers.  The police statement reads: "The Kwara State Police Command wishes to inform the general public of her swift action in response to a viral video that trended on many social media platforms, blogs and on virtually every lip yesterday, showing a young lady by the name Ayomide Afolayan, other details withheld, was seen being horrendously, heartlessly and indecently assaulted by her supposed boyfriend named Jimoh Abdulfatai of Shao in Moro Local government area of Kwara State. “Her hands and legs were tightly held by four other friends of the first suspect named, Olamide Babatunde, Afeez Ayomide, Agboola Abdulsamad and Yakubu Mustapha for severe effect. "The Police in Shao got wind of this highly despicable incident which prompted a swoop on the scene; the suspects were rounded up, the victim liberated and was taken to hospital for treatment. "The Commissioner of Police, Cp Tuesday Assayomo psc (+), directed immediate transfer of the matter to the Command's CID for discreet and timely investigation. "The suspects confessed to the crime, and the reason adduced for their senseless action was a mere suspicion of infidelity on the part of the lady which the lady vehemently denied. In spite of the denial, the boyfriend forcefully retrieved the lady's telephone handset and handed  over the phone to one of his friends to start videoing the actions and eventual posting on social media. "Investigation done with, suspects were charged to court and were remanded in custody pending the hearing and actual trial of the matter. "This will serve as a deterrent to other people having such criminal and appalling tendency in their minds. "The Commissioner of Police, Kwara State wishes to use this opportunity to advise parents on the need to be parents in the real sense of it; parents should monitor their children, know the kind of friends they keep so as to avert this type of ugly incident.”  