Several persons, including a 70-year-old resident, identified as Mr. Okoi Egbai Cletus Offem, have been killed in a clash between troops of the Nigerian Army and residents of Nko and Onyadama communities of Cross River State.SaharaReporters learnt from the daughter of the deceased that members of the Nko community had attacked some soldiers who were deployed to restore peace between the warring Onyadama community in Obubra Local Government Area (LGA) and Nko community in Yakurr LGA of the state. But the soldiers descended on the whole community, killing innocent residents.She said, "The soldiers burned my father's house while he and my mother were inside. My mother ran out of the house naked but my father could not escape. He was burned to ashes," she said in a voice that reflected grief and sorrow.She continued: "Many people are hiding in the bush to the attack. The soldiers have taken over our community.”Another source from the community also told SaharaReporters that many people had been displaced due to the attack. He said, "These are Nigerian refugees from Nko community in Yakurr Local Government Area in Cross River State that were displaced from their homes by the military on account of communal war."The Nigerian Military alleged that one of their men was shot in the process of maintaining peace between the Onyoadama and Nko community. This eventually led to the deployment of more military men to Nko who have killed several, tortured our women, raped, looted and burnt down houses."This is callous and inhuman. We are also Nigerians. We need help and justice because the military has done more harm than good. This is a civil war experience and these people are traumatised."I appeal to the President and the Chief of Army Staff of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to quickly call the army personnel to order and also set up a panel to investigate this matter. We need justice. Today is the fourth day of military brutality in Nko," he added.Meanwhile, the Cross River State government has ordered the Nko community enmeshed in a clash with the military to produce the missing six personnel of the Nigerian Army alive.The order was contained in a statement issued by the Deputy Chief press secretary to Governor Ben Ayade, Linus Obogo Tuesday.The state security council comprising of all service commanders presided by Gov Ayade has been meeting since Monday morning over the weekend communal clash between Nko youths in Yakurr LGA and their neighbours, Onyadama community in Abi LGA over a parcel of land.Media reports say Nko youths suspected the army of being partial in the matter and allegedly shot an army commander on Saturday evening alongside six other soldiers.In reaction, more soldiers were mobilised from Edor Barrack in Ikom, which led to more violence, house burning and killings.In the statement, the government ordered the army to sustain its operation in Nko community until those behind the shooting of the six military personnel are produced or fished out