A landowner in Lagos State, Bunmi Blessing, has lamented the harassment she has been subjected to by her tenant who illegally erected a building on her landed property in the Ladegboye area of Ikorodu in Lagos State.According to Bunmi, she rented out eight shops to the tenant identified as Hajara Inusa in 2019.  She said afterwards, Hajara enquired if she wanted to sell the landed property behind the shops which she answered in the affirmative. She added that Hajara offered to pay N25million for the land which she objected to, noting that she had to inform her husband to seek his consent. Meanwhile, Bunmi's husband rejected the idea, saying the land would appreciate more with time. Bunmi said after some days, she learnt that Hajara broke one of the shops and gained access to the land where she erected a structure as a temporary dwelling place for her employees. The landowner said she confronted Hajara who claimed she was a wife to the Inspector-General of Police. The woman thereafter reported the matter to the traditional ruler (Baale). The aggrieved landowner further alleged that Hajara invited police officers to harass her and her nine-year-old daughter who was recording the illegal arrest with her phone camera. She said when she challenged the officers who were on mufti to show their ID cards and arrest warrant, they refused, with lame excuses that they were on patrol and had just received an order from their boss to carry out the arrest. She mentioned the names of the officers that came as: ASP Moriamo and one Olanrewaju. Bunmi said her refusal to go with the officers was followed by beatings from the officers. According to her, Hajara has a cordial relationship with the police boss in the area, she said upon visiting to report the case at Igbogbo police station, she met Hajara wining and dining with the police boss who ordered that she be handcuffed and beaten. She told SaharaReporters on Monday, “It's a long story, but currently the case is in court, they were the ones who charged me to court. She hit me with a charm; that was when police officers came from Alagbon to the scene of the incident. “Hajara claimed I stole her three ACs, CCTV camera worth millions of naira, she said I did malicious damages, and she alleged that I collected N1.3million from her, according to a petition written to Alagbon. In the petition she wrote to Panti, she claimed I took N2million from her. “From Alagbon, she charged me to court, they came to the place to see what she was talking about, that was when Hajara's boyfriend slapped me and started beating me up, she collected a charmed ring from someone and hit me with it. “She also chased us with gun, we ran, but she entered her car and started chasing us that she must kill me and take over that property from me. “She's my tenant, she rented eight shops out of ten and one of the stores, she converted to toilet because she claimed she cannot use toilet with the other two tenants. “From there, she trespassed to my property, there was a fence and gate on the landed property but she broke one of the shops through which she gained access to the land. She built a house, a temporary place for her workers called Ubah and Emeka Hope. “Now she demolished it, because when police started coming and I told them what she did, she was advised to pull down the structure but the break in she did to gain access to my property is still evident.” Meanwhile, a source told SaharaReporters that Hajara Inusa had been causing trouble in the area due to the relationship she has with the police. According to the source, last year, Hajara fought one of the estate security operatives.