A human rights lawyer and activist, Chief Malcolm Omirhobo, has threatened to sue the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) over alleged defamation of character. Omirhobo recently dressed to the Supreme Court in Abuja and a Lagos High Court like a ‘Juju priest,’ believed to be worn by worshippers of ‘Olokun’, the ruler of all bodies of water and other water deities.  The lawyer, who hails from Delta State, last week said he dressed to Supreme Court that way to exercise his fundamental human rights following the judgement of the apex court that allows every Nigerian to express their way of worship and the use of hijab in schools and public places. MURIC had in a statement by its director, Professor Ishaq Akintola knocked Omirhobo for dressing like a traditional doctor to the apex court. Akintola said the lawyer’s behaviour is not only contemptuous of the Supreme Court pronouncement but also provocative, condescending, and irreconcilable with the noble profession of law. He also blamed Omirhobo’s actions on alleged “bigotry fanned by the embers of hatred”. Reacting in a letter to MURIC dated June 29, 2022, Omirhobo asked the organisation to withdraw the statement “about him hating the sight of Muslims.”  He said if there was no retraction within seven days, he would be compelled to file a defamation suit in any appropriate court of law.  “That your said publication is false, malicious and calculated to defame me and did defame me,” Omirhobo said.  “That your aforesaid publication lowered me in the estimation of right-thinking members of the Muslim society and exposed me to hatred, ridicule, odium, scorn and contempt.  “That your aforesaid publication caused pecuniary to me and/or injured my financial credit in respect of my profession, calling, trade and/or business.  “Consequent upon the above, I demand an immediate and unambiguous retraction of the above-mentioned publication from you within seven days of your receipt of this letter to be published in the Daily Post Newspaper and ten other National widely read Newspapers, failing which I shall be constrained to bring legal action against you without any further recourse to you.” 