Two passengers who had boarded a coastal bus have reportedly been killed by suspected terrorists at Obbo-Aiyegunle-Osi Road in the Ekiti Local Government Area of Kwara State. SaharaReporters learnt the registration number of the vehicle is 'XC167MUN'.  The terrorists also kidnapped at least 10 other passengers on the bus. SaharaReporters gathered that one of those killed by the gunmen was the driver, simply identified as Akeem. Ajayi Okasanmi, the spokesperson for the state police command, while confirming the incident on Sunday, said, "On receipt of the information by the police in Obbo Aiyegunle, policemen, vigilantes, local hunters and available members of sister agencies on the ground immediately raced to the scene in an effort to get the victims rescued. "Bodies of the dead were retrieved and deposited at Carosi Hospital mortuary for autopsy. "The Commissioner of Police, Tuesday Assayomo, has given a marching order to the Area Commander and the divisional police officers covering the area to move into the bushes to ensure that the kidnapped victims were rescued and the kidnappers arrested. "Perpetrators of the crime would be smoked out from wherever they may be hiding. A-24 hourly patrol of the area in conjunction with other sister security agencies to boost the confidence of the people and to also prevent any further attack in the area.” Meanwhile, the Kwara State Government has appealed to the people of Obbo Aiyegunle to be calm in the wake of the gruesome incident that resulted in the death of two people and the abduction of 10 others. The government stated this in a statement released by the Commissioner for Communications, Bode Towoju on Sunday. He said a reinforced security team comprising police, secret service and the military had been dispatched to support the existing security architecture in the area. The incident comes a day after terrorists attacked St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State on Sunday, killing scores of worshippers. Many people were also injured and fighting to survive in various hospitals in the state. 