Nigerian tweeps have been attacking Yoruba actors, Jide Kosoko and Eniola Badmus on Twitter for declaring support for the ruling All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu for the 2023 general elections. Following the actors’ endorsement of the former Lagos State Governor and national leader of the ruling party in a viral video shared by their colleague, Yinka Quadri, many Nigerians on Twitter have been lambasting the popular Yoruba actors.  They accused them of being tribalistic without considering the current plights of Nigerians under President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. While some users of the microblogging app said Kosoko’s support for Tinubu did not come as a surprise to them having been President Buhari and Tinubu’s supporter since 2015, others described the decision of the actors as foolishness. They accused Kosoko and his colleagues who endorsed Tinubu's candidacy of yielding to tribalism and ethnic sentiment, calling them ethnic bigots who have failed to be honest about Nigeria’s situation. A user, @Misonlyhuman wrote, “Last time Jide Kosoko was active in politics was during the Ojota protest and we all know who led that protest(Tinubu and co) “That protest ushered in Buhari and I never heard Jide Kosoko speak about APC malgovernance. Time for another election and his voice is back. Money is king.” @wittytayor001 wrote, “A real wàhálà for you if in 21st century you need a celebrity to show you where your votes should go. “If Jide Kosoko and his gengs like make dem support a dead man.” For @VictorIsrael_, “Jide Kosoko and every Yoruba man can go ahead & campaign for Tinubu. “Psquare and every Igbo person is free to campaign for @PeterObi but before you make this a Tribal war ask yourself this question, is the price of cooking gas different from tribe to tribe? E dey touch everybody.” While @Solarthing stated that “If you supported Buhari in 2015 and you are canvassing for Tinubu in 2023... Then you are a Fool! because only fools refuse to learn from their past!” Also, @joe_unofficial wrote, “So, they are supporting him because he supported the Yoruba movie industry. “So when he becomes president, what happens? Africa Magic Yoruba makes Nigeria a better nation? We enjoy security because Jide Kosoko starred in a movie? “Why are you guys so selfish and vile?” @cchukudebelu wrote that “Jide Kosoko was prominent at #OccupyNigeria, even wore the T-Shirt. “But he's maintained a studied silence on social issues (like #EndSARS) over the past 7 years. “Now he's come all out in support of Tinubu. Of course we know where his "motivation" comes from.” For @Jioke_LOC, “Awolowo's free education is being bastardized by these people. “Jide Kosoko pictured here, rallied Nollywood to endorse Buhari in 2015, hid himself in the political space in 2019 cos of shame now he is back to endorse another failure BAT.” @Tweetlawyer3 wrote that “Eniola Badmus, Jide Kosoko and Yoruba nollywood represents a grp of people that are still voting based on ethnicity. “The North Voted Buhari in 2015, today they suffer the most from banditry a. D kidnapping. Nigerians wake up! This is 2023! Competence is all that matters!” While @TheNigerianAth1 stated that “Competence lo kan, it's not about tribe. Tinubu is failing even before becoming the president. “Sane yorubas like me who are not tribalistic will not vote him. It's time to stop all these tribal bullshit.”