The National leader of the All Progressives Congress, who is also the party's presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, has told Lagos State first-class rulers to prepare for the coming 2023 elections. Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State, told the traditional rulers to be firm and steadfast in their resolve for his candidacy if they want to "benefit" from him when he becomes president. Addressing the chiefs upon returning to Lagos after winning the ruling party’s presidential ticket, Tinubu said, “White attire and white cap chiefs, if you want a white cap from the President, you have to be firm.“It is not something funny. It is our time. This is not a funny thing. It is not something you can joke about. It is something that requires prayer. You have to be steadfast with your work and it will come to pass.”SaharaReporters on Tuesday reported that a former Governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliyu, scolded Tinubu, telling him not to waste his time and resources in contesting for president.According to Aliyu during an interview on Channels TV on Tuesday, Tinubu should have supported a younger candidate like the Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi to win the party’s presidential ticket.“Bola Tinubu a good friend, I don't think he should waste his time now, and I think he should reserve his resources for another thing and I thought that it would have been better for him to have sponsored younger people into this win. He has the governor of Ekiti, Fayemi, he has other young people that he could have sponsored and allowed it happen, no matter what he thought he could do to Nigeria, these people would do it better,” Aliyu had said."His (Tinubu’s) outburst in Abeokuta; I don't think any person can say in Nigeria of today of 200million people, this is my turn. It is never your turn; even if you want to say, it's the turn of the people or of your own, let's even put it that way, then put all what that's has happened given all the ethnic groups in Nigeria, the North-East, North-Central, South-East has never had a presidency in Nigeria, even if that's a claim to be made;  these are the zones that could make such a claim but for you to think because you have helped somebody to be and therefore it must be your turn, agreement was not written. There was no evidence that there was an agreement that was written for somebody to say it's my turn.“If it's your turn in the APC that's your own problem but that's not for Nigerians. Nigerians will come to decide what is best for them given what we have gone through,” Babangida had noted.