The lawmaker representing Esan North-East/South-East federal constituency of Edo State in the House of Representatives, Hon. Sergius Ogun has stated that the companies producing major toilet wash products are misleading Nigerians. He asserted that the advertisements of major toilet wash products in the market and reality are contradictory to their potency. House of Representatives In the motion moved by the lawmaker on Tuesday, Ogun argued that toilet cleaning disinfectants such as Harpic and Hypo used in most households in Nigeria are ineffective, of poor quality and leave much to be desired, according to Daily Post. He said, “Despite the poor quality of these toilet cleaning disinfectants, there are several television sponsored advertisements that are misleading unsuspecting members of the public who rely on such adverts product information to make purchases;“Section 17(e) of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission Act, 2018 empowers the Commission to carry out investigations considered necessary or desirable in connection with matters within the purview of the Act.” However, the House of Representatives resolved to investigate the effectiveness of major toilet wash products in the market. The House, therefore, asked the Executive Vice Chairman of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) to appear before the Committee on Commerce to justify the presence of Harpic and Hypo, and alleged non-effective cleaning disinfectants in the market or otherwise. The House of Representatives had in March rejected a bill that seeks to regulate the way children of public officers are going outside the country to study. The bill, sponsored by Sergius Ogun which was slated for second reading, also called for the strengthening of Nigeria’s public institutions to discourage the presence of foreign institutions. In his lead debate, Ogun argued that it would check the penchant of public officers taking their wards outside the country for studies while less effort was being made to improve the situation of the country’s public schools. He said, “I believe that public officers should be subjected to the utility of the public institutions which they are responsible for building and maintaining. “For instance, reports show that Ghana alone gets N160 billion of Nigerian students’ funds, while the United Kingdom gets N80 billion from Nigerian students. About 75,000 Nigerians are said to be studying in Ghana, paying over $1 billion annually for tuition fees and upkeep.”