The family of the student of the Command Secondary School, Enugu State, who was reportedly flogged to death, has said they will not pursue the case with the Nigerian Army, adding that they have handed the matter to God. SaharaReporters had reported that a soldier, identified as First Lieutenant Nweke flogged Master Eneh, an SS1 student several times on the head which inflicted severe injuries on him after he allegedly did not cut his hair.  Shortly after, his head started swelling and he was moved to several hospitals before he died as a result a few days ago. His mother, Adaeze Chibuzo, had taken to Nkanu People of Enugu State Nigeria Facebook platform to share the news with the pictures of the deceased showing a swollen head before his demise. She had said “It is still very hard to believe that you are gone my son but one thing I know is that God will surely fight for us, rest in peace my son.” "Army man flogged my son in school to death in command sec sch, Enugu. RIP; my first fruit in life." However, when SaharaReporters interviewed the deceased’s father, Mr Evaristus Eneh, on Monday, he said he had handed the incident over to God as he had no plan to confront the army authorities. Eneh said that since his son had died, there was nothing that would be done to bring him back to life. According to him, "I have decided to leave everything onto God. I don't know how to step into the whole thing and I don't want to go into any case. Somebody called four days and I told him I don't want to go into anything. I am not confronting them; I want to leave off. "My boy has just died and he is dead. My boy is dead; he is dead and nothing will bring him back so why am I wasting my time. I have every plan to go and bury him so that is it." Meanwhile when the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, 82 Division, Col Abubakar Abdullahi, was reached on Monday, he asked the family to come and report the matter to the school authorities so that it could be taken up. “Let them come to the school if they have any grievances to report. If they report to the school, the school authorities will find out; not this media hype. Even if something happened to you in your office where you are working the best thing to do is either report to the police or report to the school or both and say this is what happened. If the office sees it in the media; what do you expect them to do. But if they have reported, I am not in the picture."