The Ondo State Government has given all public and private institutions in the state an August 1, 2022 deadline to install Close Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras on their premises. The ultimatum given by the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu was disclosed in a statement issued on Wednesday by his Special Adviser on Security Matters, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye. Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu.



The governor last week signed an Executive Order for the compulsory installation and use of Close Circuit Television (CCTV) devices in all public and private institutions in the state. According to the state government, the order was necessary due to the increased spate of insecurity in the country and the need to protect lives and property in all public and private institutions and centres throughout the state. The order followed the June 5, 2022, terrorist attack on St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, the governor’s hometown, where 40 congregants were killed and several others injured. Schools, religious houses, banks, hotels, restaurants, bars, and nightclubs are some of the places expected to comply with the order. The statement warned that failure to comply with the order will lead to the shutting down of the defaulting facility. The governor said that the order for the installation of CCTV in all public and private institutions across the state is aimed at assisting security agencies to track criminal elements that have been terrorizing the state. The statement reads, “In furtherance of his tireless commitment to strengthen the security architecture of the state toward securing lives and property of the good people of Ondo State, Mr. Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN, recently issued an Executive Order making it mandatory for all public places, financial institutions, restaurants, hotels and other lodging facilities, beer – parlors/bars, nightclubs, educational institutions and religious worship centers in all the 18 local government areas of the state to have functional video surveillance/ CCTV equipment installed in strategic locations within their premises.  “This is aimed at assisting security agencies in tracking criminal elements that have been terrorising our environment for some time now.  “This step is no doubt in line with global best practices in Intelligence operations to provide real–time clips on criminal activities.  “To this end, the state government encourages operators and owners to comply on or before August 1 in line with the Executive Order, after which security agencies; particularly the Amotekun Corps, will commence full enforcement.  “Owners/Proprietors of the above–mentioned premises are hereby enjoined to ensure the safety of all video recordings as any attempt to damage or manipulate such shall be liable to prosecution. ”  “The failure of any of the concerned operators/owners to comply with this directive will attract the following sanctions: the premises shall be closed down indefinitely. The owner (s) shall be prosecuted.  “I wish to reassure citizens of Nigeria residing in the State that the administration of Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, will stop at nothing to rid the state of criminal elements.”