A group of Christian religious leaders in Kaduna State has warned the All Progressives Congress (APC), candidates in the House of Representatives and House of Assembly against supporting Senator Uba Sani's Muslim-Muslim ticket in the 2023 general elections. The group vowed to reject and vote against candidates who support such move. Southern Kaduna In a statement issued by Pastor Gideon Alkhana, the group said it would be sacrilegious should Senator Sani, the APC governorship candidate, pick another muslim as his running mate in the 2023 general elections. The statement read, "If our brothers who are vying for different political offices in Southern Kaduna decide to support Uba Sani's decision to fly a Muslim-Muslim ticket, we'll make sure we mobilise against their elections in the coming 2023 general elections. “Some of the elective Executive Chairmen in the region would also lose our support. "Kaduna State has already been deeply divided within the fault lines of ethnicity and religion. Uba Sani and his party cannot afford to continue with Governor Nasir El-Rufai's dangerous trend.” The group insisted that the Southern part of the state has capable individuals from the Christian faith with proven track records that could deliver just like anyone from the other faith in the APC. The group also said that flying a Muslim-Muslim ticket could throw the state into confusion. The group also called on eligible Nigerians, especially Christians to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and participate in the 2023 general elections if they truly want to effect positive change. While reacting to the prevailing security challenges in the state, the group said the killing of Rev Father Vitus Borogo in Kaduna was unacceptable, adding that the perpetrators of the evil act must be fished out. "Why we are conscious of the fact that religion should not form the basis of our leadership selection process, the peculiar circumstance the state found itself in calls for critical reflection in the decisions we take today. If this decision materializes, we'll use our strength, pulpit and preach to our members to reject this decision. "For the sake of equity, justice and fairness Uba Sani must demonstrate this spirit by ensuring that his running mate comes from the Christian faith," the group said.