The Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu has expressed his grievances over an attack on the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State. Terrorists on Sunday, launched an attack on the church with a yet-to-be-ascertained number of people killed while scores were injured. Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu SaharaReporters gathered that many members of the congregation were shot dead by the terrorists. Those who sustained injuries have been taken to different hospitals in the state. Reacting in a tweet, the state governor said he was saddened by the development, adding that the state would deploy all available resources to ensure the arrest and prosecution of the assailants. Akeredolu, who is currently in Abuja on party assignment, said he would return to Owo immediately as he commiserated with the families of those who lost their lives in the unfortunate attack. He tweeted, "I am deeply saddened by the unprovoked attack and killing of innocent people of Owo, worshipping at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Today. "The vile & satanic attack is a calculated assault on the peace-loving people of Owo Kingdom who have enjoyed relative peace over the years. "It is a black Sunday in Owo. Our hearts are heavy. Our peace and tranquillity have been attacked by the enemies of the people. This is a personal loss, an attack on our dear state. "I have spoken to the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Ondo, Most Reverend Jude Arogundade, who is presently on his way to Owo. Similarly, I have had to cut short my party’s national assignment in Abuja and visit Owo immediately. "This is an unexpected development. I am shocked, to say the least. Nevertheless, We shall commit every available resource to hunt down these assailants and make them pay. We shall never bow to the machinations of heartless elements in our resolves to rid our state of criminals. "I commiserate with my people in Owo, particularly families of the those who lost their lives to this ugly and unfortunate attack. "I extend my condolences to Olowo of Owo, Oba Gbadegesin Ogunoye as well as the Catholic Church. "I urge our people to remain calm and vigilant. Do not take laws into your hands. I have spoken to the heads of the security agencies. I have equally been assured that security operatives would be deployed to monitor and restore normalcy to Owo kingdom."