A non-governmental organisation known as Women Arise on Monday advocated for state police in Nigeria, following a terrorist attack on a church in Ondo State. St. Francis Catholic Church in the Owo local government area of the state was attacked by terrorists on Sunday during service, killing scores of worshippers and injuring many others.  According to the Women Arise, Nigeria is faced with anarchy resulting from people arming up to defend themselves. The group lamented the incessant loss of lives to violence in the country and called on Nigerian leaders to stop pretending that there is no solution to the security challenges in the country. In a statement obtained by SaharaReporters on Monday and signed by its President, Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, Women Arise said the sadness goes beyond the pain of losing scores of people in the attack. She lamented that the deeper sadness is in the fact that there is presently nothing to stop such a tragic incident from happening again, saying the enforcement system appears to be powerless against the ‘demons’  The statement reads in part, "Once again we are faced with the tragic devaluation of human life as insecurity captures Nigeria. Over 50 human beings killed in a holy sanctuary by savages who are cowards.  "The sadness is not restricted to these 50 lives snatched for no reason. The deeper sadness is in the fact that there is no force in the way to stop this from happening again. The enforcement system stands deactivated before these demons.  "In this place, they killed an Oba. In this place, they razed a village and massacred the inhabitants. Too many times they have kidnapped and raked ransom. This menace is not restricted to Ondo area. It is nationwide and calls for urgent attention and seriousness.  "The leadership of Nigeria must stop pretending there is no solution. Each Nigerian state must have its own police. Otherwise, we are faced with anarchy resulting from people arming up to defend themselves.  "This current order is a massive letdown and its likelihood must in no way be reinforced by any political process.”  "Our hearts go to the victims and their families.  We stand with them at this trying time as we work to build a human society out of this degeneration," the statement added. 