A young man who identified himself as Yemi has lamented the extortion of N400,000 from him by policemen of the Rivers State Police Command.  Yemi told SaharaReporters that the incident occurred on Tuesday around the Garrison area of Port Harcourt, the state capital.  He said he had gone to fix his laptop and had taken a Bolt ride along with his friends, only to be stopped by the police.  The media influencer said he was handcuffed by the policemen like a criminal and forced to transfer N400,000 to one Tony Anyim with OPay account number 8134448195.  “They came with a red Sienna vehicle and only wore vests with police on top,” he told SaharaReporters.  Also narrating the incident in a series of tweets, the influencer said, “Good evening, I just got picked up by SARS yesterday they picked me up from a Bolt with my guys, paid the Bolt guy and told him to leave, told us to enter a Sienna. They checked my phone and my guys’, saw nothing then they checked my balance from my Gmail.  “After driving a distance, they dropped my guys and told me to stay, kept slapping me calling me a Yahoo boy (fraudster) and handcuffed me. They took me to a place and told me to pay N5 million. I said I didn’t have. They then told me to make calls and used a recorder to record me where they forced me to admit I was a Yahoo boy and I wanted to give them N2 million to be free,” he said. He said they later said they were taking him to Bayelsa, adding that by that time, he had been with them for four hours and that the time was around 7pm. He said he was told they could take him inside a bush and no one would know what happened to him. “After much begging, I was forced to pay N400,000 after which I was dropped on the road in another state. “They waited till the alert came, then they deleted it. Gave me N500 to go home, took my number and said they’d call,” Temi narrated. The spokesperson for the Rivers State police command, Grace Woyengikuro Iringe-Koko told SaharaReporters, “We’re on it, we are trying to verify if actually they are police officers or men under Rivers State Command, we will get back to you.” 