Some selected Northern leaders, including Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State and Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, have scheduled a meeting with the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, to discuss “vital concerns” with regards to his proposed running mate. This trailed the defection of former Kano Governor, Ibrahim Shekarau, from the ruling APC over allegations of injustice by the incumbent, Umar Ganduje.  Shekarau, who is the Senator representing Kano Central Senatorial District left the APC to join the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Sources informed Punch that the defection of Shekarau to NNPP to form alliance with the party's presidential candidate, Rabiu Kwankwaso has allegedly unsettled the APC and further changed the direction of ongoing consultation and negotiation among the northern governors. A party chieftain said Shekarau’s defection and proposed coalition between the NNPP and Labour Party’s presidential flagbearer, Peter Obi, had changed the dynamics of the negotiation. “What it means is that usual bloc votes for the APC in the Kano and Kaduna could be decimated by the NNPP and left in a disadvantaged position. This could worsen if the party runs with a Muslim-Muslim and NNPP unveils Obi to the Christian residents in the North-West. “I think this is why the negotiation table has changed in the favour of North-East where even the Muslim-Muslim we are likely to run with can coast us to victory. “That can only happen if the North-West assents to it. This conflict is partly why the issue of vice-presidential slot has dragged on for this long,” he was quoted as saying. Meanwhile, a statement issued by APC National Vice-Chairman (North-West), Salihu Lukman, noted that a meeting of APC governors, gubernatorial candidates and ministers in Kaduna, North-West leaders would meet with Tinubu to present their case. According to the statement, the meeting welcomed the initiative to commence the consultative meeting as vital for strengthening the APC in the North-West as well as to improving leadership engagements and cohesion within the zone. The governors and political office holders reviewed the state of the party at the national and zonal levels. They also acknowledged the challenges facing some APC state chapters and resolved to promote efforts at reconciliation as an urgent priority. He said, “The meeting noted the contribution of the North-West to the emergence and growth of the APC and its electoral viability, with the North-West providing about 39% of the votes the APC recorded in 2019 and 2015 presidential elections. “Therefore, the zone resolved to aggregate its interests and vital concerns and engage accordingly with the presidential candidate of the party,” he stated.