The founder of Household of God Church, Reverend Chris Okotie has decried the imbalance in the government of Nigeria, which he attributed to the downward spiral of the country.  Okotie, however, appealed to all the presidential candidates in the 2023 election to withdraw for him to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari.  The cleric spoke to journalists in Lagos while celebrating his 63rd birthday.  According to the cleric, he's the "right person to right the wrongs in the country". He, however, proposed an Interim government which he said would solve the country's challenges. He urged the candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress and Labour Party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Peter Obi respectively, and others to step down for him and support him so he can do the job required to correct the wrongs in the country. He said, “I want to appeal to all presidential candidates to withdraw from the race and allow me to come in as the interim president. I want to implore Asiwaju to support my government for the betterment of the country and I also want to tell Obi that the system that introduced him cannot take him anywhere, because he cannot operate in the system we have now. “All the presidential candidates should support me to succeed President Buhari as the interim president. We must also rise above tribe and religion because there is an imbalance in the country and we are not practising federalism instead, what we are practising is a presidential system of government. “Since 1999, things have been declining because the presidential system of government we are practising has failed us. We must get rid of the National and State Assemblies because maintaining each member cost the country billions of naira. Some of the standing committees at both assemblies are not useful to the country, they are only representing themselves, not the populace."  Okotie described the National Assembly as wasteful, saying the funds budgeted for it could be better spent.  “For the best of the country, both assemblies should be scrapped and the money for maintaining them should be used for something else. What we have in Nigeria today is the government of the party, by the party and for the party,” he said. Advocating that the position of minister and commissioner should be scrapped, the cleric said, “Ministers and the Commissioners should also be expunged because Nigeria’s democracy has been hijacked by the elite for their interest and they are deceiving the downtrodden who don’t know anything. “And the most important of all is our constitution. It should be changed to a people-oriented constitution, not the military one we have now. After the change, we can then restructure the country for the better.”  He described Nigeria as running a confusing system of government, saying, “First, we emulated the British and now we are copying the American style of democracy that didn’t take us anywhere.  “The presidential system of government has failed us woefully. We should enable professional associations constitutionally to acquire legislative power as a replacement for the removal of the legislature from our political system.  “And we should also embrace the concept of aboriginal democracy, that is a government from the people, for the people and with the people. This is distinct from the current experience of political parties which is the government of the party, the party and for the party.  “My government will be that of National Reconciliation and Reconstruction. The interim government shall address aberrations and anomalies in the polity. I want to implore all Nigerians to join hands in the conversations that would enable a transition to an interim government at the end of President Buhari’s administration." 