The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on its website recognised the Labour Party’s leadership structure that elected former Anambra governor, Peter Obi as its presidential candidate. The party is factionalised with a faction producing Obi as its presidential candidate and another one producing Jude Ezenwafor as its candidate ahead of the 2023 general elections.  When SaharaReporters checked INEC’s official website on Thursday, the electoral body listed on the site Barrister Julius Abure, Alhaji Umar Farouk Ibrahim, Mrs Oluchi Operah, Hajiya Hadiza Kishimi and Barrister Akingbade Oyelakin as the National Chairman, National Secretary, National Treasurer, National Financial Secretary and National Legal Adviser of the party respectively. These are executives belonging to the structure that produced Peter Obi as the party’s presidential candidate. There was no mention of the Acting factional chairman of the party, Calistus Okafor. SaharaReporters had reported earlier that Ezenwafor was declared unopposed at the party’s factional primary election held in Abuja, which was attended by Calistus Okafor and other members of the faction. This faction of the Labour Party had rejected Obi as the consensus presidential candidate. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ezenwafor, who also served under Obi for four months, in his acceptance speech, said, “I am on a rescue mission to free Nigeria from social, economic and political crises currently bedevilling it. “Nigeria needs to be rescued and Labour is leading a revolutionary course; Labour party will win the general election. “Our party is going to take over Nigeria and bring back the glory Nigeria needs. I have been in the corridors of government for the past 20 years. We are here on a rescue mission.” Ezenwafor said he had learnt from two former governors in Anambra State. Speaking on Peter Obi’s emergence as the presidential candidate of a faction of the party, Okafor had noted that he was not against the former governor. He described the doors of his faction of the party as always open. “I am fighting for what is my right. I am not fighting my brother. Those who think I’m being used should have a rethink,” he had said. 