Yoruba nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho has recounted his encounter with the Department of States Services (DSS) during a raid on his residence in 2021, noting that there could have been more bloodshed if he had not escaped.  According to a report by Tribune, Igboho said he deliberately escaped the attack to prevent his aides and loyalists living inside the building from being killed.  The DSS on July 1, 2021, raided Igboho’s residence in Ibadan, Oyo State, arrested 13 of his aides and killed two others. The arrested aides were arraigned before the court but later granted bail by a Federal High Court.  Speaking to journalists at his Cotonou home on Friday, Igboho narrated how heavily armed agents of DSS, led by a woman and accompanied by a number of soldiers waged a full-scale war on him that day.  “They cordoned off my house and started shooting. Some of them were strategically positioned on the street that leads to my house from Soka Road.  “They shot and forced their way into my premises, shooting sporadically in an encounter that lasted for more than one hour. It was a war and their intention was to kill me. It was God that saved me. Residents of Soka, most especially my neighbours, were gripped with fear.  “My uncle, who was a Muslim, observing prayer was shot dead right on his praying mat. Another close aide of mine was shot dead.”  He, however, said that despite his travails, the agitation for the actualisation of the Yoruba nation was intact.  He added that he would soon return to Nigeria after his long sojourn in the Benin Republic.  Igboho noted that he was not scared of being arrested by operatives of the Department of State Services upon his return to Nigeria as he believes in the judiciary.  “I am going back to Nigeria soon,” he said in a recent interview.  In September 2021, an Oyo State High Court granted a relief sought by Igboho and ordered the Nigerian government to pay him N20 billion.   “I am going back to Nigeria soon.” He added, “I believe in the judiciary.”  Igboho mourned his personal loss including the brand-new vehicles in his Ibadan house vandalised by bullets fired by security operatives who attacked his residence. 