President Muhammadu Buhari has sworn in Justice Olukayode Ariwoola as the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN. Ariwoola was sworn in on Monday at the Council Chambers in Abuja.  He took over from the immediate past CJN, Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad who resigned on Monday. Justice Ariwoola is currently the most senior Justice of the Supreme Court. He was formerly a Justice of the Court of Appeal and was elevated to the Supreme Court bench following his transfer from the State High Court of Oyo State. Ariwoola started his educational career in his home town Iseyin at the Local Authority Demonstration School, Oluwole, in the Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State between 1959 and 1967. PHOTONEWS: President Buhari Swears-in Justice Olukayode Ariwoola As Acting Chief Justice Of Nigeria | Sahara Reporters https://t.co/oqMf7cnRSp pic.twitter.com/iSkRfzEhVM  SaharaReporters earlier today reported that Justice Tanko Muhammad was forced to resign as the Chief Justice of Nigeria, multiple sources on Monday told SaharaReporters. There have been several reports that he resigned on the grounds of ill health but the sources said it wasn’t a voluntary action as he was forced to leave office. “The CJN was forced to resign, He didn’t voluntarily resign. He was unaware when he got to the office this morning that he would be leaving. “He was expected to declare open a workshop this morning at the NJI (National Judicial Institute). He was preparing for the conference when he read it somewhere that he has resigned. “The Presidency cabal waited to boot him out after Mary Odili retired. It is part of their plans for litigation ahead of 2023 elections,” one of the sources told SaharaReporters. A source however told SaharaReporters that the Iseyin-born jurist has a terminal illness.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: How Tanko Muhammad Was Queried Over $10m Bribe Collected By Son, Forced To Resign As Chief Justice Of Nigeria
0 Comments
6 Hours Ago “Do you know that Ariwoola is ill as well? He may leave soon on health grounds. That’s even if they send his name to the Senate for confirmation,” the source said. “We pray he grows very old but because of his ill health, he may end up acting for a few months.” SaharaReporters had in 2021 exposed a plot by some Aso Rock (Presidential Villa) cabal members to remove Muhammed over his style of leadership in the judiciary. He was appointed as acting CJN on January 25, 2019, following the suspension of Justice Walter Onnoghen. SaharaReporters, however, gathered that the grouse of members of the Aso Rock cabal against him was that he had been too slow to do their biddings.



 See Also






Legal
THROWBACK: How SaharaReporters’ October 2021 Story Detailed How Buhari Presidency Cabal Wanted Ex-Chief Justice, Tanko Muhammad Out Of Office Amid Raid On Odili’s House
0 Comments
7 Hours Ago “They are planning on removing the current CJN. He is expected to retire in 2023 but they are not happy with him. They said he’s too slow to do their biddings,” a top source had told SaharaReporters at that time. “Since Onnoghen was removed for him, clearly the cabal behind his good fortune had expectations of him which they think he is not delivering as anticipated.”