A former Commissioner of Information in Ondo State, Donald Ojogo has said explosives were used in Sunday’s attack on St Francis Catholic Church in Owo.  The former commissioner also said many of the victims may have died while trying to run away from the point where explosives were used.  “There’s clear evidence that explosives were also used, but after the explosives from what we gathered from some of the survivors, while they were running outside as a result of the explosives that were detonated in the complex, they were just being shot at. “So, it was in the course of the stampede that most of these persons died. As of yesterday, the number of casualties was 21 officially but so many other persons are on the danger list,” Ojogo said. Ojogo, while speaking on Channels Television on Monday, said the nearest police station to the scene of the attack is 2 kilometres. He said policemen could not get to the scene of the attack on time due to a lack of vehicles. He, therefore, called for the establishment of state police, saying this will strengthen federalism and make policing more efficient and effective. He said, “The nearest police station to that place is almost 2 kilometres because there is a police post adjacent to the palace of Olowo (of Owo) and the incident happened behind the palace of Olowo. “The complaint was that the police were not able to get vehicles to that place on time. They (terrorists) came into that place, stayed and shot people for over 20 minutes and no security agency was able to get to that place. This calls for concern and one of the high points of this unfortunate incident underscores the fact that there’s no time Nigeria needs state police more than now. “It will rather strengthen our federalism and encourage people to be effective and make security and policing more efficient and more effective in the country.” The former commissioner who described the incident as a war situation said nothing like that had ever happened in southwest Nigeria. According to him, the attackers should not be described as bandits but as terrorists who are trying to externalise violence across the country. He said the problem could either lead to a religious crisis or an inter-ethnic crisis. 