The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar earlier on Thursday announced Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta State, as his running mate.  Prior to the announcement, Atiku explained that it was a tough decision to arrive at his choice of a running mate, stating that he selected Okowa due to the perceived qualities of the latter in governance and politics.  According to Atiku, the Delta governor possesses the relevant qualities for the position of Vice-President coupled with appropriate experiences in both the legislative and executive arms of governance.  Atiku noted, “It is a difficult decision that I was called upon to take but I am not afraid to take difficult decisions.  “Someone hoping to lead a complex country such as ours, tough and difficult decisions will remain part of my everyday life, let me, therefore, start this momentous journey with a crucial decision about who among the eminently qualified shortlist will be my running mate.  “Accordingly, let me state that the person who I have chosen as my running mate possesses those identified qualities; he personifies not only the seriousness the current moment represents for our country but also the future that our young people yearn for and also deserve.  “He's a serving governor who has demonstrated in his state and through his conduct that governance is about service to the people. I know that he will not only add excitement to our energized campaign but will also help to bring focus, discipline and stability to our government come 2023.  "I am pleased therefore to announce here my choice of a running mate who will help to lead us to victory next year not only in the presidential elections but also in the governorship and legislative elections. “He will be by my side as I work hard every day to provide people with security, revive our economy, improve education and unite our country, he has both legislative and executive experiences; His Excellency Governor Ifeanyi Authur Okowa." 