The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), is set to profile Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) in Nigeria who are involved in money laundering and illicit financial deals. The Chairman of the ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, who disclose this, said the task would be carried out effectively using the database of the International Police (Interpol). He added that formal notice will be given to global leaders when tracking the suspects.  Owasanoye reportedly made these remarks at the end of a meeting by Heads of Nigerian Law Enforcement Agencies with senior officials of Interpol in Lyon, France. “The Commission will develop the habit of issuing notices especially on high profile suspects. Such notices will be seen globally on PEPs in particular,” Owasanoye was quoted to have said. The spokesperson for ICPC, Azuka Ogugua also confirmed that the commission’s chairman had disclosed further that the Commission would join the Global Focal Point Network coordinated by Interpol as part of measures to tighten the noose around corrupt and criminal persons. She explained that the Interpol is expected to partner the law enforcement agencies in Nigeria through information sharing, accessing the organisation’s database of global suspects, and prevention of incursion and influx of migrant terrorists into Nigeria. Ogugua further stressed that the Interpol had briefed the Nigerian delegation on Operation Gemini, a special project focusing on trans-border organized crime involving migration, human trafficking, drug trafficking corruption and financial crimes. ”Under the MoU signed with the Interpol, the Nigerian law enforcement agencies will have unrestricted access to global criminal databases. It is expected that this fresh collaboration will boost the capacity of law enforcement agencies in Nigeria to fulfill their mandates,” she stressed. The Nigerian delegation to the meeting included top officials of the National Central Bureau Abuja (NCBA), Nigeria Police, Nigerian Navy, Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Others are; the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Person (NAPTIP) and the ICPC. 