A chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ekiti State, Olukayode Oso has cried out over an alleged threat to his life and plot to arrest him alongside other leaders of the party ahead of Saturday’s election.  He disclosed this on Friday in a letter titled, "Plot To Frame Me And Possible Arrest", which was addressed to the Ekiti State Commissioner of Police.  He said his life has been under threat since the recent attack on the campaign team of the governorship candidate of the party in the Itaji Oye Local Government of the state by suspected political thugs.  Oso, who is a close associate of the governorship candidate of the party, Segun Oni, is among the party leaders allegedly pencilled down for arrest before the election. Oso’s letter accused the state government and former governor of the State, Ayo Fayose of working in cahoots to frame him up and link him with the attack that took place in Itaji on Saturday, June 11, 2022.  He said he was not in Ekiti on the day of the incident, adding that the growing popularity of the SDP in the state should not be used to harass or intimidate any of its members.  Meanwhile, the SDP had also written a petition to the Inspector General of Police and other security agencies.  Oso’s letter rea, "I am Olukayode Oso, an Ekiti State indigene and an S.D.P stalwart/close associate of Chief Segun Oni, the gubernatorial candidate of S.D.P in Ekiti State.  "I have on authority that the Ekiti State government in collaboration with the former governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, is planning to arrest me and possibly link me with a situation that occurred recently, especially the Itaji incident.  "I want to state clearly that I was not in Ekiti State on the date of the incident and I am a law-abiding citizen of this state.  "The fact that my party S.D.P is the leading party at the forthcoming election on Saturday, 18th June 2022, should not lead to unnecessary arrests/linking to issues that I know nothing about.  "It is important to note that the S.D.P legal committee, led by Barrister Owoseni Ajayi had written/notified all security agencies in the state."  SaharaReporters had reported how some political thugs suspected to be members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday, June 11, 2022, attacked and opened fire on the convoy Segun Oni, injuring two of his supporters.  The hoodlums were said to have attacked the former governor’s convoy with guns, cutlasses, and other dangerous weapons. Luck however ran out on one of the attackers, who was wearing a campaign T-shirt of the APC candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, as he fell from the vehicle conveying them and was immediately apprehended. Upon interrogation, he identified himself as Christopher, the Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Ise garage, Ado Ekiti. In a video seen by SaharaReporters, he said they were sent by a popular APC chieftain in Ekiti State, Mr Mentilo, to carry out the attack. 