A former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, has won the All Progressives Congress Presidential Primary elections. About 2,322 delegates from across the country were present at the Eagles Square, Abuja, to elect the flag bearer of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections.  Tinubu polled 1271 votes to beat his major opponents, former minister and former Rivers State Governor, Rotimi Amaechi who polled 316 while Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, had 235 votes. Senate President, Ahmed Lawani polled 152 votes and Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello polled 47 votes. Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State polled 38 votes while his Cross River counterpart, Ben Ayade polled 37 votes. Nigeria's former Education Minister, Emeka Nwajuba had only 1 vote; same with aspirants Rufia Sani and Christopher Onu who both polled one vote each. There were 13 void votes. The Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church and presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Tunde Bakare, didn't score any vote, same with aspirant Tien Jack Rich. Also, former Minister of Information, Ikeobasi Mokelu scored no votes. Former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha also got no votes. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that the voting by the 2,322 delegates ended around 7.30 am. The ruling party has been in turmoil since national chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, attempted to impose a consensus candidate on the party. Meanwhile, 11 northern APC governors stood their ground and announced their decision to zone the presidency to the South. The party’s three-day special national convention began on June 6 and will climax with the election of a presidential flag bearer today. SaharaReporters had earlier reported how Osinbajo stormed out of the Eagles Square, the venue of the party primary, early Wednesday morning as it became clear that his dream of succeeding his boss as Nigeria’s next president may have come to nought. Also, recall that some delegates from Rivers State created a scene as they alleged rigging in the ongoing election. According to them, electoral officials were assisting the delegates who could not write, contrary to the announcement made earlier by the electoral committee that only one electoral official attached to each state would be allowed.