The Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, on Tuesday met with police officers in the Ogun State Command over a threat to embark on strike by the junior officers. Some aggrieved rank and file in the Nigeria Police Force, according to reports, threatened the strike, over poor salary, lack of sophisticated weapons to fight crime, bad condition of their barracks, failure to provide uniforms among others. File photo used to illustrate story. It was gathered the Police IG had begun meeting with the police officers nationwide over the looming strike. The IG represented by the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of South-West zone, Johnson Kokumo, on Tuesday, held a meeting with police officers in Ogun command as part of moves to avert the crisis. The meeting was scheduled to hold in both Ogun and Lagos Commands on Tuesday. The DIG who arrived the state police command, Eleweran, Abeokuta at 1:22pm, met with the policemen behind closed doors after an open address where he and the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, gave remarks. While addressing the officers, Kokumo urged the command to observe and obey the law and respect the rights of the citizens. Kokumo also reminded the corps of their duties as the lead security agency in the country that is saddled with the responsibility of protecting the citizens. He said, “As officers, we have to observe and obey the law. We have to ensure we use our power with confine of the law. “Conduct yourself professionally. Let there be a healthy respect of the rights of the citizens, we are to protect. “We want to see a Nigerian Police Force that is people friendly, professional and that has respect for the rights of the citizens. The public will then see us as their friends when we do these.” Earlier, Bankole assured the DIG of complete loyalty to the Nigerian police force adding that the command will be professional in discharging its duties. He said, “I want to assure you that no member of this command will involve in any form of planned strike action. “I am sure I am speaking the minds of the officers who are here including the generality of the member of the Nigerian police force, Ogun State command. “We must assure you and we also want you to take this message to the inspector general of police that our loyalty to the Nigerian police force is total 100 per cent. “We will continue to be dedicated to our duty, we will continue to be loyal to the federal republic of Nigeria and the Nigerian police force. We will continue to be dedicated to the Nigeria Police Force.”