A combined N4.2 billion has been traced to the separate accounts of suspended 'super cop' and disgraced former Commander of the Intelligence Response Team, DCP Abba Kyari; and his deputy, ACP Sunday Ubua. The details are part of a report sent to the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA).  According to the agency, not less than N1.4 billion passed through Kyari’s account while he was commander of the IRT, The PUNCH reports. However, Kyari’s deputy, Ubua, may have received far more than him as not less than N2.8 billion was traced to his eight bank accounts. The details are part of a report sent to the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, by the NDLEA. According to investigations, Ubua allegedly received a lump sum of N2.664 billion on August 15, 2019. The NDLEA is now working on the assumption that the sums traced to Kyari and his deputy may be connected to the sale of some illicit substances including Tramadol worth N3 billion. A source said, “You will recall that the NDLEA is investigating an allegation that Kyari and his team seized a large consignment of tramadol in a warehouse at Amuwo Odofin in Lagos. The consignment was worth about N3 billion. “The IRT under Kyari’s command seized these drugs and they are believed to have sold the consignment to a cartel afterwards. It was around the time of this seizure that Kyari’s deputy received a deposit of N2.664 billion in his personal bank account. Out of this money, he purchased FBN Insurance shares worth about N100 million.” Meanwhile, the NDLEA has written a letter to the AGF seeking his approval for the confiscation of properties and assets belonging to the disgraced cop. It was gathered that the NDLEA’s request was dispatched to the justice minister last week following the March 7 arraignment of Kyari and his men for dealing in cocaine. SaharaReporters had reported that Kyari is facing eight counts of conspiracy, obstruction, and dealing in cocaine, and other related offences at the Federal High Court, Abuja. The other defendants are four members of the IRT, Ubua, Bawa James, Simon Agirigba and John Nuhu. Two civilian suspects arrested at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu— Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne—are also defendants. Kyari was earlier indicted in the United States for alleged involvement in a $1.1m scam carried out by an international Internet fraudster, Ramon Abass, aka Hushpuppi. He was suspended by the police last July to allow for investigation into the extent of his relationship with Hushpuppi. A source told The PUNCH the drug agency’s request is receiving the AGF’s attention, noting that Malami was in the process of approving the seizure of the embattled DCP’s assets and property to ensure he did not benefit from the proceeds of crime. Our correspondent gathered that the ex-IRT commander’s assets that will be confiscated include cash and money in bank accounts, vehicles, real estate, notably hotels, residential and commercial buildings; personal effects such as wristwatches, jewellery and other valuable possessions. The PUNCH learnt that the AGF’s approval was required by the NDLEA to seize a suspect’s property pending conviction by the court. A senior officer stated, “Under the NDLEA Act, the NDLEA cannot forfeit his assets unless based on the consent of the Attorney-General. The NDLEA wrote last week and the AGF is considering the request.” The NDLEA spokesman, Mr Femi Babafemi, confirmed the development, saying, “It’s a normal procedure to seek approval for a no debit order on suspects’ bank accounts when suspicious transactions are noticed in such accounts.”