The Fulani Socio-Cultural Association, Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, has asked the Nigerian government to extradite Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho to the country to face trial. Declared wanted by the Department of State Services for allegedly stockpiling arms to destabilise Nigeria, an allegation he denied, Igboho escaped to Benin Republic in July 2021.   However, luck ran out on him and he was arrested by the Interpol at a Benin airport when he tried to board a Germany-bound flight. He was remanded in a prison in Benin Republic for many months but regained his freedom on Monday to the excitement of many Nigerians particularly in the South-West region. Reacting to his release, National Secretary of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Saleh Alhassan urged the Beninese government to handover the Yoruba leader to its Nigeria counterpart. According to Alhassan in an interview with SaharaReporters, Igboho should be treated like Nnamdi Kanu, the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra. He said, “They should quickly bring him (Igboho) back for trial, so that he can be behind bar like Nnamdi Kanu because he is a threat to peace and security of this country. Nigerian authorities should bring him back and put him into trial. “He is an eminent threat to the country, since he left, have you heard of any killing in the South West again? Let’s be honest, that means he was the one instigating it. Ask yourself, since he left, have you heard about the herdsmen palaver? “The government should behave like the Russian government and deal with all those who want to destabilise this country. The government in Benin Republic should release him to the Nigerian government; he is a wanted man here in Nigeria. He should be released to the Nigerian government for onward trial for the crime he has committed against humanity. With the burning of the palace of the Sarkin Fulani of Oyo State and killing of seven people; he is wanted for trial, he also attacked custom officers.”