An undisclosed number of persons have been killed while several houses were razed in Moon and Mbakyior communities under Kwande Local Government Area of Benue when suspected Fulani herdsmen attacked the place on Wednesday.  The attack, which has left the entire region almost deserted, has also led to the disappearance of several residents of the area whose loved ones are yet to be able to account for their whereabouts.  A resident of the area, who confirmed the situation in a Facebook post, disclosed that the place was still under siege several hours after the herdsmen attack, adding that everyone was living in fear.  “The people of Moon and Mbaikyor wards under Kwande Local Government Area are under siege. The Fulani are burning houses and killing people. We need urgent help,” the resident said.  Another resident of the local government area, Atimga Timothy, also confirmed the situation currently ongoing in the Benue council area.  "The same thing is happening in my village in Mbadula ward of Kwande. They are killing and burning houses. Some people are missing, people were buried at night,” he said.  The spokesperson for the police in Benue, Catherine Anene, when contacted by SaharaReporters on the development on Thursday, said that she had yet to get the report of the incident, adding that she would give a statement after receiving a briefing from policemen in the affected area.  Communities in Benue State have come under renewed attacks by Fulani herdsmen in recent times with many lives lost in the process.  For instance, on March 12, 2022, the people of Tse Torkula community in the Guma Local Government Area of the state were told to vacate their ancestral homes by herdsmen or risk fierce attacks.  The threat message came after herdsmen had attacked Tse Ahentse, Iye and Udei communities in the council area, killing 13 persons in the process.  Before then, in February, five persons including a father and son were killed by herdsmen during an attack on Tse Udeghe community, Mbakpa Council Ward and Ahumen community in the Gwer West Local Government Area of the state.  In January, two persons were killed and several houses burnt in Igama community, Ojugo Ward under Okpokwu Local Government Area of the state in yet another brutal attack by armed herdsmen.