The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has accused Hope Uzodinma, the Imo State Governor of distributing smartphones to youths in the state to smear the image of those agitating for the freedom of the South-East. This was contained in a statement issued on Tuesday by Emma Powerful, the group's media and publicity secretary. According to the statement, Uzodinma has allegedly paid some youths in the state and given them mobile phones with which they propagate lies against IPOB, its militant wing, the Eastern Security Network and other Biafran agitators. The group described Uzodinma as an enemy of the state, stressing that if he had good intentions for Imo State people, he could have created better job opportunities for the youths engaging them in profitable ventures such as opening a phone-producing factory where the youths will be employed. IPOB also warned Nigerian socialite, Pascal Chibuike Okechukwu, popularly known as Cubana Chief Priest against interfering with the affairs of the state. The statement reads, “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) under the command of our indefatigable liberator Mazi Nnamdi Okwuchukwu Kanu has been drawn to the sharing of smartphones by the Supreme Court Administrator of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma to the gullible minds and youths he is recruiting to attack IPOB members on social media platforms. “These attack dogs and e-rats are paid to propagate lies and smear campaigns against IPOB, Eastern Security Network, ESN, and Biafra agitators. “We blame those he is deceiving with smartphones, material things and cash to oppose those fighting for their freedom. “If Hope Uzodinma has correct intentions for Imo State youths, he wouldn't have given them phones to attack IPOB; he would have provided industries and companies where the youths will work and produce phones for sale. “Imo youths should know that Uzodinma is taking them for granted. They should stop being gullible. “We are warning Mazi Pascal Chibuike Okechukwu, popularly known as Cubana Chief Priest to steer clear, and not strike a deadly deal with Hope Uzodinma. He should not dare IPOB. Let him continue his restaurant business and not get deceived by Hope Uzodinma and his APC co-travellers. “Anybody who knows this man should tell him to retrace his steps and don't allow Uzodinma to use him to fight innocent people.”