The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, on Monday assured Nigerians to travel safely by rail, noting that the current administration had done well in ensuring safety of rail transport across the country. Mohammed said this on Monday while speaking at a press briefing on Monday, hours before terrorists bombed the Abuja-Kaduna train around 8pm, killing and abducting passengers in the commotion.  The Nigerian Railway Corporation has thereafter suspended the train service as thousands of Nigerians are still agitated about the identities of those who are dead, abducted or injured and rushed to the hospitals. Mohammed had also listed rail projects the current Government had completed across the country. According to Mohammed, “We are proud that in our time, Nigerians are once again able to travel by rail, this time in total comfort and safety. “Lagos-Ibadan, Abuja-Kaduna, Warri-Itakpe-Ajaokuta and Abuja Metroline are shining examples of our rail revolution. And we are just getting started. We have the rehabilitation of the Port-Harcourt-Maiduguri Eastern Narrow Gauge Railway project that cuts through Rivers, Imo, Anambra, Benue, Enugu, Ebonyi, Gombe, Yobe, Adamawa and Borno states, and the Bonny Deep Sea and Railway Industrial Park. “We have the Kano-Maradi standard gauge line that passes through some economic hubs of the country, including Kazaure, Daura, Katsina and up to the border town of Jibiya and the city of Maradi in Niger Republic.” SaharaReporters had earlier reported that, terrorists who attacked the Nigerian Railway Corporation train from Abuja to Kaduna on Monday evening abducted some of the stranded passengers. SaharaReporters obtained victims’ accounts which confirmed that some other persons were shot dead by the rampaging terrorists who operated for hours due to the absence of the Nigerian military and other security agencies. Cleaners and workers of the train known as Loretta and Abdul along with some security personnel and some passengers have been confirmed dead.