A Lagos State-based female entrepreneur, Adeyinka Igbinoba, is currently crying out for justice after a suspected notorious land speculator, Saheed Mosadoluwa, more commonly called Ibile, sent thugs to assault and brutalise her till she lost her legs.SaharaReporters learnt that the assault was over a N30milion parcel of land in which they were defrauded by Mosadoluwa and had gone to his office at VGC on the Lagos Island to demand a refund. Igbinoba who now walks on crutches said her assaulter boasted that the police and even the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission could not retrieve the money from him as he was “well connected.”Speaking in an account obtained by SaharaReporters, the woman lamented that the police officers at the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), Ikoyi, Lagos State, had compromised the matter, while calling on the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, the Lagos State Commissioner Of Police, and the National Human Right Commission to wade in the matter.She said, “As a citizen of this country, you never get to feel the decay or the injustice until it gets to you and you have a direct feeling. Mid 2021, two of my siblings were swindled by a criminal named Saheed Mosadoluwa AKA Ibile the sum of N30,000,000 in a bid to buy a parcel of land which was later found out to be fraud. When he was confronted with it… he promised to refund the money which he never did. After several months, my sisters took the matter to EFCC and it was to no avail. They were forced to involve our parents. Our parents called this man and pleaded with him on several occasions to please refund this money; during one of the calls, he agreed that we should meet and he gave the meeting point and time which was to be November 20th 2021, 4pm.“On this day my mother had called me to accompany them to the meeting venue… which was Landbook properties, ELeganza Complex opposite VGC. Unknown to us, it was an ambush… Saheed Mosadoluwa had placed his thugs around the venue. Innocently we went to his office and my mum started by pleading with him that N30milion was not a small amount, that he should please refund the money. One of my sisters also pleaded, All Ibile could say was that not even the EFCC chairman could take the money from him.“At a point, I said “You said you were not a proud person and you are saying not even the EFCC chairman can take the money from you.” At this point, he flared up and signalled his thugs who came in and pounced on my brother in-law…. On seeing this, I brought out my phone to start recording being a media practitioner myself.“But Saheed Mosadoluwa saw me and came after me…. He wrestled and struggled with me to take my phone which I resisted.  At this point, I was making my way out of his office to an open place where people could see us….. when he saw that he couldn’t take my phone, he went back to his desk and took a wooden calving as a weapon and came after me while he aimed at hitting my head, I was fortunate to see him on time raising the object and swinging it to my head so I had to dodge it, while dodging it.“I lost my stability and staggered, but then he caught up with me and kicked me with his leg and I fell to the ground. He struck again with the weapon but now on my ankle and my bones shattered instantly. This was a pain I couldn’t describe, he still didn’t relent. So I knew I had to run for my dear life.  At this point some thugs were inside dealing with my brother-in-law being the only male amongst us. When I stood up from the ground to run… that was when I realised how grievous this damage was. I had no choice than to start limping on one leg.”“One of my siblings saw me with my broken ankle and had to beckon to her husband that they needed to leave the premises. I was rushed from there to the hospital and my worst nightmare started from there. The following day, my husband who just returned from a business trip went to Ajuwe police station to report the matter and Saheed Mosadoluwa was invited. The suspect as the law would have him called promised to come on Tuesday 23rd November 2023.“On the day Saheed Mosadoluwa was supposed to appear at Ajuwe police station, they got a signal that the matter has been transferred to Force CID Alagbon that my husband should report there.“On getting there my husband went straight to see the Assistant Inspector General Of Police AIG Usman Beliel who called on SP Beatrice Agbator (the IPO at Alagbon) to brief him about the case… and to my husband’s greatest surprise.. The case was introduced to the AIG as a “Redbrick Case.” We later found out that Saheed Mosadoluwa filed a counter petition against me that I was the one that brought in thugs to his office.“To our greatest surprise, Saheed Mosadoluwa is well known to everybody at Force CID Alagbon as they all hailed him every time.  The matter was later transferred to DCP Ogundele who as far as I’m concerned is Saheed Mosadoluwa’s friend, who had said my husband must bring me along with evidence that Saheed did it and that if Saheed sees the evidence, he will realise he did it and apologise.“In my broken state, I went to FORCE CID Alagbon on my new crutches after surgery… with video and audio evidence that was clear enough to see the dastard act that Saheed committed on me, DCP Ogundele asked me to hand over the evidence to DSP Mac – Donald… Despite the fact that I didn't trust them, I totally lost confidence in them, so I submitted the evidence…. It’s been over three months, noting has been done.  I went personally on my crutches to see the AIG Usman Beliel and registered my concern that its of concern why the matter was called Redbrick Case and it means Redbrick wants to use their influence to pervert the course of justice and the fact that Saheed has been bragging about that he has the entire Police force in his pocket.“As we speak my ankle is supported by 12 screws and metals which will likely be there for the rest of my life and having to walk with two crutches is not only affecting my life…. It’s affecting my mental health, my self-esteem, my business, my life and everything around me.“I’m using this medium to call on The Inspector General of Police, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Lagos State Commissioner Of Police, National Human Right Commission, and all my colleagues in the media to help make the justice system work before this criminal walking freely in our midst gets to cripple another victim.”