Nigeria Police Force junior personnel have insisted they will embark on their planned industrial action despite threats by the Nigerian government and the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba. The officers had listed poor salary, unpaid emoluments, outdated weapons, poor working conditions among other reasons for the planned protest.  The protest tagged “We are tired of negligence” is scheduled to be held at the Eagles Square in Abuja on March 26 to reiterate their demands to the Nigerian government. In a document referenced 4001/AJR/NPF/ABJ/VOL 7/188 addressed to Baba, the aggrieved officers asserted that “strike is the only language Nigerian government understand(s).” According to the document, all junior ranking officers have been banned from their duty posts including those attached to politicians on and from the said date. Speaking exclusively to SaharaReporters, one of the leaders of the aggrieved officers said they are not afraid of the consequences that will follow their actions. "We are ready to be punished by the police authorities," he said. Following reports of an impending strike by personnel of the Nigerian Police, Baba warned officers and men of the force that strike action by a lead security agency such as the police was tantamount to mutiny. A statement issued by Police Force Headquarters had warned that any strike action or any disruption of law enforcement services would be treated as mutiny. “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to a news making the rounds on social media alleging that some members of the force will be embarking on a strike action with effect from March 26, 2022. “It is pertinent to restate that the Nigeria Police Force is a regimented and disciplined organisation with laid down rules and guidelines for addressing grievances and in no circumstance is a strike action one of such means. “The men and women of the Nigeria Police Force are fully aware that a strike action or other deliberate disruption of law enforcement services by any security organisation is mutinous and the personnel of the force would not degenerate at any point to that level of disloyalty and indiscipline, as policing services are paramount and essential in the maintenance of orderliness and peace in the nation,” it said. The statement signed by Acting Force Public Relations Officer and Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Mr Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said government and police authorities were working to accelerate the full implementation of increment of salaries and allowances proposed by the president. But the source, one of the policemen at the forefront of the struggle, said they were ready for the consequences of being accused of mutiny. “They claim it’s mutiny, mutiny is like treasonable felony but then what we ask for is just our rights. We deserve good lives too like other members of the armed forces. “Though I have been afraid and I have also been this courageous as well. It's mixed feelings. If the politicians can embezzle billions of naira for their greed without fear of the law, why should I be afraid of fighting for the benefits of our suffering police officers in Nigeria? “How many of us can they kill or jail? The world is changing and Nigeria police cannot on account of archaic laws remain slaves in the name of fear. The benefits are rarely paid. I have a colleague who died about 8 years ago, the family members are still battling to get the death benefits. “We have told our coordinators across the country and we have mandated them to speak with the senior officers to see reason and join this patriotic gesture.” The last time Nigerian Policemen embarked on industrial action was during the administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo. He subsequently sacked the then IG of police, Mr Musuliu Smith on February 2, 2002, for allowing the strike to take place. Smith is the current Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC).