Terrorists, locally known as bandits, on Tuesday, attacked the convoy of Samaila Yombe, the deputy governor of Kebbi State, Tuesday. Yombe's Chief Press Secretary, Abdullahi Yalmo who confirmed the attack to Vanguard said a police officer, Idris Umar Libata was killed in a gun duel with the bandits. The deputy governor was said to be in company with the commanding officer of Zuru army barracks to console the families of the people of the community who had lost their sons during a recent bandits’ attack.The recent attack claimed the lives of at least 68 local vigilantes and scores of civilians in the state. The bandits attacked the convoy at the heart of Kanya village around 8 pm.Yalmo noted that God saved his principal, but lamented that the deputy governor lost one of his security details.A source from Sakaba Local Government Area of the state on Tuesday night told SaharaReporters that eight of the soldiers deployed to Zuru Emirate had been killed by gunmen.“Initially we have our local security outfit that has been checkmating these monsters but last year the governor disarmed them by saying the security outfit was engaging in unlawful killings but he did not provide an alternative.“Immediately after banning our local security outfit, bandits then moved in and have been killing mercilessly since then.“Some hours ago, some soldiers were deployed but unfortunately, the bandits have just killed eight of the soldiers. So sad, we are no longer safe,” the source had said. Speaking on the killing of the vigilantes, another source told SaharaReporters that the deceased persons were ambushed after being fed wrong information regarding the location of the bandits. The source said, “Yesterday, after killing many people and rustling cows, the youths from Dabai, Magajiya, Ribah, Diri and Danrnagi villages confronted the bandits with their locally made guns. “They killed many of the Bandits; along the line, someone called them and gave them wrong information about the location of the bandits, so that was how they fell into the ambush of the bandits. “The location is Sakaba Local Government Area, Zuru Emirate, Kebbi state. It's a border town between Kebbi South and Niger. The town has produced many Generals. “Right now, they are still operating in Zuru villages. The soldiers and the police are more afraid than the civilians.” Earlier on Tuesday, President Muhammadu Buhari condemned the incident.