The family members of Oluwabamise Ayanwola, a young woman who went missing after boarding a Bus Rapid Transit, on Tuesday stormed the Lagos State House of Assembly to protest against her death. The bereaved persons, alongside some activists, proceeded to the State House of Assembly after the family addressed a press conference on issues surrounding Bamise's death. The protesters demanded justice for the slain woman as they expressed doubts over the safety of passengers in BRT vehicles despite being government-owned. They, however, called on the government to put more effort into ensuring the security of lives and property. Addressing the protesters, Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, on Tuesday, promised that the legislative arm of the state Government will ensure that justice is served. Obasa, who said he and his colleagues were very concerned about the incident, sympathised with the family and friends of the victim. Meanwhile, he urged Nigerians not to preempt the police which is investigating the case as he promised that the House would continue to follow up to ensure justice is served appropriately. “The erroneous belief that it would be swept under the carpet is unnecessary. The driver has been arrested and is in custody. “We are watching and must ensure justice is done on the case. The Governor has spoken about it and I just want to appeal that we work together to get justice. “We will do everything to make sure that justice is served. Justice must be served. And everybody in Lagos must be protected,” he told the protesters. Oluwabamise went missing after boarding the BRT with number 240257 heading to Oshodi at about 7:30 pm that fateful day and became suspicious when the driver of the bus told her to sit at the back despite being the only one in the vehicle. She communicated her concern to a friend all through the journey until minutes later when she could no longer be reached on the phone. “Around 7:32 pm, she posted ‘God, it is your protection I need’ on her WhatsApp status. “After repeated calls, her friend said she heard some voices underneath trying to struggle to get the phone from her,” sister of the victim, Elizabeth, revealed. Shortly after her body was found on Monday, the police in Lagos revealed that the driver of the BRT vehicle, Nice Andrew Omininikoron, who went into hiding immediately after the incident, had been arrested. The spokesperson for the police in Lagos, Adekunle Ajisebutu, confirmed the arrest, adding that more details into the matter would be provided later. The driver, speaking after his arrest, claimed he was accosted by some gunmen who forced him to stop around Carter Bridge and forcefully took the woman away.In another video, he confessed that he did “dirty things” to the deceased.