The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has ordered students to occupy the streets of Abuja with their cooking pots, mattresses and other personal effects to protest against the strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). ASUU had embarked on a four-week warning strike on February 14 to press home its demands, with the prominent ones being the renegotiation of the ASUU/FG 2009 agreement and the sustainability of the university autonomy by deploying UTAS to replace the government’s “imposed” (IPPIS).  Other demands include the release of the reports of visitation panels to federal universities, distortions in salary payment challenges, funding for revitalisation of public universities, earned academic allowance, poor funding of state universities and promotion arrears. On March 14, the association extended the strike action by another two months to afford the government more time to address all of its demands. NANS President, Sunday Asefon in a statement on Friday called on students to occupy major streets in Abuja on March 28th if the union refused to call off the strike. The statement read, “Sequel to our ultimatum issued to Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities to find a lasting solution to their face-off for our university to reopen on or before 28th March 2022. “With no hope in sight for resumption of academic activities on our campuses, you are by this notice directed to commence immediately, mass mobilization of students to resume their academic activities on the newly created University of Street, Abuja. “Students are enjoined to come along with their cooking utensils, mattresses, mosquito-treated net and other needed logistics to make the stay conducive as the protest may last longer than expected until campuses are reopened. “The Coordinator of NANS Zone C, Abah Owoicho has been appointed as Registrar of the New University of Abuja Street and coordinator of the mass occupational protest. “While looking forward to your swift consideration for immediate action, please accept our regards.”