The Kaduna State Government has released the passenger manifest for the Abuja-Kaduna train service AK9 which was attacked by bandits on Monday. SaharaReporters had reported how terrorists bombed the Abuja-Kaduna train en route Rigasa destination with hundreds of passengers on-board.  During the attack, many passengers were feared kidnapped, others shot dead and unascertained number of the passengers also sustained various degrees of injury. According to the documents, 398 passengers bought tickets for the trip but 362 of these passengers were validated as having boarded the train through the gate. It also revealed that eight bodies had been recovered, while 26 were injured. “The state government appealed to the public to assist with information regarding passengers on the train by contacting the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency on the phone line 09088923398, “Further updates will be communicated to the public,” the document read. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and Governor Nasir El-Rufai had on Tuesday visited some of the victims receiving treatment at different hospitals in Kaduna. Amongst those injured is the former Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Ibrahim Wakkala who is also receiving treatment in one of the hospitals the governor visited. SaharaReporters had reported that Wakkala was among the Abuja-Kaduna train passengers who was shot by terrorists on Monday evening. SaharaReporters learnt that Wakkala was shot in the leg and had since been hospitalised. FULL LIST: Names, Phone Numbers Of Over 300 Passengers On Abuja-Kaduna Train Attacked By Terrorists by Sahara Reporters on Scribd   SaharaReporters had reported that out of the patients taken to St. Gerald's Catholic Hospital in Kaduna, 8 had been confirmed dead, including a lady medical doctor with the hospital, Chinelo Megafu. SaharaReporters on Monday night also reported that Muhammad Amin Mahmood, an aspirant in the just-concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Northwest Zonal Youth Leadership, was shot during the attack on Monday. However, as of the time of filing this report, it was not clear how critical his injuries were or if he would survive. SaharaReporters had reported that two cleaners and workers of the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train identified as Loretta and Abdul were confirmed dead. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank of Agriculture, Kabir Mohammed Adamu, was also confirmed as one of those abducted.