The presence of a former Commander of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team, Abba Kyari, at the Kuje Correctional Centre has generated excitement among the inmates.  Punch reports that the level of excitement rose as some of the inmates had been investigated for various crimes by the IRT under the embattled DCP.  Also, it was gathered that Kyari rejected food offered him by the Nigerian Correctional Service after being remanded in prison custody on Monday.  The suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, it was learnt, opted for the food prepared by his wife or other family members.  A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Monday ordered the remand of Kyari, and six others facing drug trafficking charges with him, to the Kuje Correctional Centre.  The presiding judge, Justice Emeka Nwike ordered the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, to transfer the defendants to prison custody, shortly after he denied them bail.  The suspended DCP was arraigned alongside Sunday J Ubia, Bawa James, Simon Agirigba and John Nuhu who are members of the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT).  Other defendants in the charge marked FHC/ABJ/57/2022, are two drug traffickers who were arrested at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu, Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwane.  The agency accused the defendants of conspiracy, obstruction and dealing in 17.55 kg of cocaine.  The embattled DCP and his co-defendants were said to have been settling down in the custodial centre but sources said the DCP has largely kept to himself since his arrival on Monday.  “We suspected that he may not eat the food being served here. So, we were not surprised when he opted for the food prepared by his wife or family members.  “His presence has, however, generated excitement in the facility. Many inmates who had had some encounters with him and others who heard about his ongoing trial have been discussing the fact that a senior policeman like him was remanded in Kuje where some individuals he investigated are also serving time.”  The NCoS spokesman, Francis Enobore, said inmates facing prosecution had the right to eat food prepared by their family members, noting that they are free to provide their food by themselves.  He stated, “Our law allows us to request any inmate who wishes to do self-feeding to apply through a formal application to the officer-in-charge of the custodial centre. Subject to the approval of the official in-charge, the applicant will make arrangements with whoever he wishes to bring food for him.”  “The caveat is that if the person fails to bring food, he would not be fed from the service’s kitchen. Again, whoever is bringing his food; it is compulsory the person tastes the food in the presence of the officer conducting the visit to ensure that the food is wholesome before passing it over to the inmate.”  However, no alcoholic drinks or cigarettes are allowed in the correctional centres, he said, adding that 12 officers were facing sanctions for breaching the law on trafficking of illegal materials into the facility.  “No alcoholic drink or cigarette is allowed in the facility. Wherever you found them in the yard, they are a product of trafficking and we deal seriously with such issues.  “There is a long list before me now of officers to be dismissed for trafficking. Five will be dismissed while seven others will be reduced in rank,” he said.