A former Senator who represented Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani has said if the First Ladies in the 36 states of Nigeria and other prominent women had paid more attention to the deliberations regarding the gender bills at the National Assembly, there could have been a different outcome. This comes amid increasing agitations by Nigerian women for an increase in the number of female members in the National Assembly (NASS) and the state legislature. Also, following the rejection of the gender equality bill by lawmakers on Tuesday, there have been protests by women groups. Shehu Sani Over 200 pro-women groups on Wednesday protested at the National Assembly Complex, calling on lawmakers to pass the affected bills. In a tweet on his official handle on Thursday, Sani said, “If the 36 First Ladies in the country and women holding positions in Government, the private sector and the Civil Society have been 24/7 vigilant in the NASS (National Assembly) during the process of the Bill, they could have gotten what they want. Many of them were not in the country and they lost.” A video of governors' wives presenting a birthday cake to Aisha Buhari, Nigeria's First Lady had gone viral on social media attracting public outrage. Bisi Fayemi, wife of the Ekiti State governor, was seen holding a cake while leading the other women who presented the cake to Aisha during her 51st birthday in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Some citizens had condemned the gesture as they queried why the First Lady had made Dubai her permanent city of residence. Also, some lambasted President Muhammadu Buhari's administration as they compared it to that of the former President, Goodluck Jonathan who was accused of corruption. However, Mrs Fayemi, Chairlady of the Nigeria Governors’ Wives Forum, later issued a statement, saying the governors’ wives were on an official visit to Dubai and not to present a birthday cake to Mrs Buhari. Mrs Fayemi said the visit coincided with Mrs Buhari’s birthday so the governor’s wives decided to surprise her with a cake.