Operatives of the Ekiti State police command have rescued a 15-year-old girl and arrested one Adewumi Ademiloye and his mother, Felicia, for abduction and sexual molestation of the victim for three years. The victim was reported missing in March 2019 after leaving home for an extra class in preparation for the West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). Her parents at the time reported the case to the police but all efforts to find her were not successful until last week, a statement by the spokesman for the police command, Sunday Abutu noted. The statement said, “However, on 15/3/2022, that is about three (3) years later, the victim’s mother received credible information about her daughter’s whereabouts. She then alerted the Command’s Juvenile Welfare Center (JWC) of the State CID who then swung into action and traced the missing girl to the house of one Mrs Ademiloye Felicia. “The victim was immediately rescued while Mrs Ademiloye Felicia and her son, Adewumi Ademiloye, were subsequently arrested for further investigation.” According to Abutu, investigations revealed the victim was lured by Adewumi into his mother’s house and subsequently drugged.The victim alleged that she could not go back home after she was given some drugs, which she later became addicted to.On sexual exploitation, the spokesman stated further, “According to the victim, Adewumi Ademiloye had a series of sexual intercourse with her and has given her to different men on many occasions each time he does not have money who had sex with her and paid Adewumi Ademiloye an amount ranging from ten thousand naira (N10,000) to twenty thousand naira (N20,000). “Further investigation revealed that the victim is about 8 months pregnant but has not been registered in any Heath Care Center or visited any hospital for Antenatal Care.” The command said Adewumi has confessed to committing the crime and would be charged to court alongside his mother for conspiracy to wit abduction, rape and child exploitation. The victim, he said, has been taken to Ekiti State Sexual Assault Referral Centre, Ado-Ekiti, for medical attention.