A woman identified as the wife of the disgraced Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCP, Abba Kyari, on Monday, fainted at the Federal High Court in Abuja. She collapsed on the floor shortly after Justice Emeka Nwite deferred ruling on bail applications filed by Kyari and six other persons facing drug trafficking charges, pending the determination of the case. SaharaReporters Media Donning a black Hijab, the woman slumped as armed operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) were leading Kyari and other defendants away from the court premises. She was later taken to the third floor of the court by some lawyers and officials of the NDLEA where efforts were ongoing to revive her. The judge had fixed March 28, 2022, for the ruling on the bail application filed by the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kyari and six others. They are to be remanded in the custody of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) pending the ruling on the bail application. He said the undertaking by the defence counsel that the defendants would be of good behaviour in the NDLEA custody can be revoked if they do not behave well while in detention. Kyari was charged with criminal offences alongside four other senior police officers and two civilians on eight counts bordering on drug trafficking. At the resumed hearing of the case, last Monday, Kyari and four other defendants pleaded not guilty to the eight counts while the 6th and 7th defendants pleaded guilty to counts 5, 6 and 7 The Prosecution counsel, Joseph Sunday asked the court for an adjournment to enable them to review the facts against the defendants. He said this would enable them to confront them with the evidence. He also argued that going ahead with the case would not be in the interest of the 6th and 7th defendants who had pleaded guilty to counts 5, 6 and 7. Counsel for Kyari, Kanu Agabi said they had filed an application for bail adding that the defendants were entitled to bail because it was a bailable offence. He argued that the decision of the prosecution to review the facts against the defendants was unnecessary, noting that it would amount to prejudice if the allegation preferred against the defendants turn out to be false. The presiding judge after listening to the arguments of the parties involved in the case adjourned the matter to March 14 to enable the parties to file and exchange the necessary processes regarding the matter. In the charge filed by Joseph Sunday, NDLEA director of prosecution and legal services, the agency accused Kyari and the four other police officers of conspiracy, obstruction and dealing in cocaine weighing 17.55kg. It also alleged that Kyari and his men unlawfully tampered with 21.25kg worth of cocaine. Umeibe and Ezenwanne were accused of conspiring with others at large to import 21.35kg of cocaine into the country. Meanwhile, a human rights lawyer, Inibehe Effiong had urged the agency to stay action on filing charges against the disgraced police chief, Kyari. The suspended police chief was remanded in the custody of the NDLEA after allegedly attempting to bribe an official of the agency with $61,000 to facilitate the release of seized cocaine.