A lady who once boarded a BRT bus driven by embattled driver, Nice (Andrew) Omininikoron, a prime suspect in the brutal murder of Oluwabamise Ayankole, has accused the driver of raping her when she boarded his vehicle on November 25, 2021. The female victim, in an interview with Punch, revealed that she had boarded the vehicle at night and was the only passenger, an opportunity which Omininikoron seized to defile her.  Her account comes amid calls for justice for Oluwabamise, a 22-year-old fashion designer who went missing after she boarded a BRT vehicle from Chevron Bus Stop, Ajah to Oshodi around 7 pm on February 26. She was later was found dead on Carter Bridge, according to the Lagos State Police Command. Narrating her ordeal to the newspaper, the other victim of the 47-year-old driver said she was raped inside the BRT bus. According to her, on the fateful day, she closed from her shop in Ajah around 8 pm and unfortunately boarded a BRT bus driven by the suspect from Alesh Bus Stop in Ajah, to Jakande. She said, “While on our way, he switched off the light of the bus, but the AC was on. But as we approached the first toll gate coming from Ajah, he suddenly parked the bus. He then told me to come and sit at the front and started asking me different questions. “I saw him using a drug and my thinking was that he parked the bus to use the drug before time ran out. A few minutes later, he started making advances towards me and I saw that his manhood had risen up. I became very uncomfortable and insisted on getting down, but he didn’t open the door. “He said he wanted both of us to go and chill and that he wanted to have sex with me, but I declined. Suddenly, he brought out a knife and dragged me to the back seat of the bus. He told me to take off my clothes, but I refused. He threatened to kill me. He tore my gown, forcefully removed the biker short I wore and raped me. I felt sad.” She noted that he parked the vehicle in a desolate location making it difficult for her to get help. She also added that he refused to let her go after allegedly raping her. She continued, “He insisted on driving me to my destination at Jakande Bus Stop. When we got to my bus stop, he still didn’t open the door. He demanded my account number and started pleading over what he did. He said he wanted to send money to me to buy painkillers. “I refused to give him my account, but he kept demanding and refused to open the door. Before he raped me, he seized my phone, and because I needed evidence, I gave him my account and he sent N3,000. He then opened the door and I left. “I could not speak out because I was ashamed of what happened and believed I could not get justice. But when his pictures started circulating online regarding the death of the lady (Oluwabamise), I told my friend that I knew him (Omininikoron). “After seeing his coloured picture, I went to my bank, requested my statement of account, traced the day he sent me the money, and it was the same name, Omininikoron Nice, which was in the picture circulating. “I told my friend about it and she introduced me to a rights activist. Some people may question me for speaking out now, but I am speaking out because of the girl. That man must not be freed because he is responsible for what happened.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State Police PRO, Adekunle Ajisebutu, has urged the victim to make a formal report of the incident. He was quoted as saying, “If the victim has a case against him, she should report at the nearest police station or the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba, and it will be investigated.”