Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, has been omitted from the list of consensus candidates from the South-South zone ahead of the All Progressives Congress delegates meeting. Keyamo was not among top government officials and politicians from the zone that appended their signatures to the list.  The list of nominees as consensus candidates was signed by Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, Secretary of the CECPC, Senator John Akpanudoudehe; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Ameachi, and Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio. Also, the party’s former chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; a former Minister of State for Agriculture, Heineken Lokpobiri, and former Edo State deputy governor, Lucky Imasuen, appended their signatures to the list. Stella Okotete, representative of women in the Caretaker Extraordinary Committee; representative of the South-South in the CECPC, David Lyon; Senator Ita Enaga, Senator Magnus Abe, Victor Giadom and Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, were present at the meeting where the decision was made. However, all the six states in the region were allocated at least an office as shown on the list. Top on the list of beneficiaries is former Deputy National Secretary of the party, Giadom, who is returning to the party as National Vice Chairman (South-South) and a member of the NWC. Other adopted candidates are Delta State Commissioner for Health, Betta Edu (National Women Leader), and Felix Morka (National Publicity Secretary). In a report by NAN, a statement issued by the stakeholders said the three party members were adopted at the last meeting of the stakeholders held in Abuja. National Vice Chairman, South-South, is zoned to Rivers/Bayelsa states, National Women Leader to Akwa Ibom/Cross River states and National Publicity Secretary to Edo/Delta states. While Governor Ayade picked Edu (Cross River) for the National Women Leader, Ameachi was said to have picked Giadom (Rivers State) for the position of National Vice Chairman. Omo-Agege was also said to have picked Morka (Delta State) for the National Publicity Secretary position.