The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) says it has intercepted alleged plans by the Nigerian government to abduct and extradite some of its top leaders from some countries of the world. According to the group, a lawyer identified as Barrister Collins Okechukwu has been hired by some saboteurs to file a petition addressed to the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, calling for the extradition of other top IPOB leaders. One of the top IPOB leaders, Chinasa Nworu is on the list of those to be extradited to Nigeria, IPOB in a statement issued by Emma Powerful, the media and publicity secretary, says on Sunday. IPOB, therefore, pleaded with countries of the world where Biafran agitators reside to protect these groups of people as it insisted that the extradition of Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the group, had not followed the legal processes. The statement said, “The attention of the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has been drawn to the secret and laughable plot by the Nigerian Government in collaboration with some traitors to abduct and rendition some key members of IPOB and Biafra agitators abroad, just the same way they renditioned our Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.“IPOB intelligence unit intercepted the secret plot to rendition or extradite these IPOB members and supporters in their desperation to weaken the movement and frustrate the struggle for Biafra restoration. “According to the intelligence available to us, Mazi Chinasa Nworu is top on the list of those pencilled down for illegal rendition or extradition.“But we want to remind the plotters and collaborators of this evil plan that extraordinary rendition remains a crime against International law in any part of the world. “According to the intel at our disposal, one Barrister Collins Okechukwu has been recruited to write a petition persuading the Attorney General of the Federation, AGF, Abubakar Malami to repeat what he did to our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu in Kenya to other top IPOB leadership.“IPOB uncovered that this Barrister Collins Okechukwu was paid by some saboteurs to ask for the extradition of the affected Biafra agitators. Those behind this evil plot think that they have succeeded in abducting Nnamdi Kanu, so it will be easy for them to now go after his supporters, but they are daydreaming. “We are, therefore, placing countries of the world on notice of this wicked plot against innocent peaceful agitators of Biafra. We alert countries around the world including Africa Union, Europe Union, the USA, United Nation, Asia and Australia to protect Biafrans in their respective countries. They should protect Biafrans against their oppressors.“The world should not keep quiet over the atrocities against Biafrans. We are peaceful and only ask for a referendum to determine our fate. The world must not mortgage its conscience in the face of the sustained atrocities, human rights abuses and crimes against humanity being committed by the Nigerian State against Biafrans.”