The Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, has earmarked N4.9 million as the fee for COVID-19 tests for himself and 11 others in Dubai.  Lalong is expected to attend the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) Investment Summit/Meeting in Dubai from March 27th to 31st, 2022.  In a letter of request signed by Danladi Abok Atu, the Secretary to the Government of the State, the governor also signed off about N74 million for the logistics for the trip he is taking with his wife and some government officials. The governor will also undergo a medical checkup and embark on a private visit to Atlanta, Georgia in the USA. Lalong and his wife will be travelling first class from Abuja to Dubai at a cost of N19.6 million. The letter is titled “Re: Invitation To Participate At The UAE Missions/NGF Investment Meeting And The 11th Global Annual Investment Meeting”.  Part of the letter read, “In light of the foregoing, the Governor is invited to consider and approve the release of the sum of Seventy-Three Million, Six Hundred and Eighty-Six Thousand, Three Hundred and Forty Naira (N73,686,340.00) only as logistics for the trip.”  Those expected to be in the governor’s entourage include his wife, Regina Lalong, three commissioners, two heads of parastatals, personal assistants and others.  According to the itinerary, the governor will spend three days seeing his doctors in Dubai after the summit.  Reacting, a resident of the state said, “The governor is taking the commissioners to Dubai to do COVID-19 tests at N5m. Something that is free. Spending about N75m for nothing.  “This comes after the spending N1 billion to install an unworthy candidate in the just-completed bye-elections of the Bassa Jos North federal constituency.” SaharaReporters earlier reported that approved a total of seventy-three million, six hundred and eighty-six thousand, three hundred and forty naira (N73,686,340) for a trip to the UAE.   The governor, according to the memo, will remain in the UAE for a medical checkup for another three days after which he will proceed to Atlanta, Georgia for a visit to last from April 4 to 10.  Meanwhile, the budgeted amount includes fees for flight tickets for the governor, his wife and eight officials.  According to the memo signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Danladi Abok Afu, the sum of N19, 658, 158 will cover the return flight ticket booked for the governor and his wife.  Another N2.3 million was budgeted for the return flight ticket for two personal assistants while another N7.4 million was included to cover the flight tickets for about 8 officials.  A whopping sum of N13.9 million was budgeted as estacode allowance for three commissioners and the Chairman of the Economic Council amid other expenses included in the budget breakdown.  The memo signed on March 11 also reads, “With reference to the letter received from the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) on the proposed trip to Dubai (UAE) for the above-mentioned investment Summit Meeting (Copy attached) and subsequent visit to the United States of America. I wish to submit logistics requirements for His Excellency's consideration.  “As proposed, the Governor and entourage will depart Nigeria for Dubai from 27-31 March 2022 for the Summit, then spend additional three (3) days (1st-3rd April, 2022) for medical check-up thereafter proceed to Atlanta, Georgia for a visit between 4-10 April 2022...” However, when SaharaReporters contacted the Director of Press & Public Affairs to Governor Lalong, Makut Simon Macham, on the phone, he denied any knowledge of the trip, saying he was “not aware of the memo”.  