A London-based blogger, Maureen Badejo has been summoned to appear before the Queens Bench Division of UK High Court of Justice over alleged defamation of character of the General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries Worldwide, Apostle Johnson Suleman. The Nigerian cleric had in December 2021 filed a suit against Maureen Badejo over alleged Harassment/Slander/Defamation of Character.  This was contained in a letter titled “Harassment/Slander/Defamation of Character, Apostle John Suleman” signed by one Elizabeth Lanlehin Barrister from (Direct Access) Crystal Chambers and obtained by SaharaReporters. The document alleged that the blogger engaged in a tirade of harassment with unfounded accusations, not limited to accusations of: bribery, affairs, impregnating church members and making death threats in a significant period of time and through several social media outlets, such as glo-tv.com, Youtube and facebook. The document reads in part; "This is to inform you that I have been instructed by Apostle Johnson Suleman to investigate and take legal action against you in respect of your unsubstantiated allegations and defamatory comments against him. "I am instructed that over a significant period of time and through several social media outlet, such as glo-tv.com, Youtube and facebook, you have engaged in a tirade of harassment with unfounded accusations, not limited to accusations of: Bribery, affairs, impregnating church members and making death threats. "As you are aware, Apostle Suleman is the senior pastor and general overseer of Omega Fire Ministries International, since 2004. My client has built a reputable ministry for a significant number of years and your false accusations and unwarranted comments, through your publications has had the effect of disparaging my client's ministry, lowering my client's estimation to members of the public and thereby causing my client and his family serious harm, financially physically and emotionally. "I am instructed that you have a planned broadcast this evening by which you intend to further your defamation of my client. You are hereby warned and notified to cease and desist from making false and defamatory comments against my client with immediate effect. "I would specify that nothing must be broadcasted tonight that will amount to defamation and your broadcast would be monitored accordingly. "I understand that my client has reported you to the police for a case of criminal harassment and the matter is currently under investigation. Should my client be forced to take legal action against you in the civil courts, please be informed that we would be seeking damages for defamation including all our legal costs.” However, according to another document obtained by SaharaReporters, dated 25th of February 2022, the blogger was scheduled to appear in the court on the 10th of March, 2022. The Court order reads; "This is an Injunction, with other orders as set out below, made against the Defendant on 10 March 2022 by the Judge identified above (the Judge) on the application (the Application) of the Claimant. The Judge: (a) read the witness statements referred to in Schedule A at the end of this Order: "Accepted the undertakings set out in Schedule B at the end of this Order, and considered the provisions of the Human Rights Act 1998 (HRA), section 12. "Until the trial of this claim or further Order of the Court, the Defendant must not by herself, her employees, servants or agents or otherwise publish or further publish the following words defamatory of the Claimant namely (i) "Suleman call himself a minister of God, but these are cultists, hitmen (ii) "Suleman, you see I can't called you an apostle, because I know that you are not. The spirit of God is not in you" (iii) "Go and address your spiritual father that is sleeping around like dog (iv)"dey sleep with, mama sleep with pikin... the one wey hin prick no fit hold one place" (spoken in broken/pidgin English with the true and literal translation being "sleeps with mother, sleeps with child....this person that cannot keep his penis in one place" or words to the same or similar effect until the trial of this claim or further." Maureen Badejo had recently interviewed Stephanie Otobo, who had some years ago allegedly had an amorous relationship with Apostle Johnson Suleman, the General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries, who again levelled some allegations against the clergyman in a recent video. Otobo, in the recent interview by the blogger, explained that she made the confession in Suleman's church under duress as she was already tired of the court processes, particularly with the transfer of the case from an incorruptible judge to another. According to her, the suit in Nigeria had a strain on her finances as she had to move to and fro the country and Canada incurring expenses over flight tickets, accommodation among others. She alleged that Phrank Shuaibu, a media aide to Suleman, approached her and asked that the case be settled if only she could make an open confession in church stating that her initial confession was false which she agreed to.