The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of not being ready to fight corruption following the emergence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the National Chairman of the party. According to the PDP, the convention that produced Adamu, a former governor of Nasarawa, as the national chairman of the APC was a “jamboree of lies”.  It said his emergence as the party’s leader would worsen corruption in the country considering Adamu’s history with the anti-corruption agency, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). A statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Debo Ologunagba, stated the “imposition of Senator Abdullahi Adamu, a man who was arraigned in Court on 149 counts of alleged fraudulent award of contracts and stealing of public funds estimated at N15 billion, as its National Chairman,” is proof that the APC cannot fight corruption. It further described the APC national convention at the weekend as a “celebration of illegality, corruption and arrogance in failure”. The statement said in part, “It is clear that with the combination of the corrupt, deceitful and rudderless (Muhammadu) Buhari-led APC government and the illegitimate Abdullahi Adamu-led party leadership, corruption, economic hardship and rudderlessness in the APC government will worsen in our country in the remaining one year of the APC administration. “The composition of the APC national leadership is a clear confirmation that President Buhari has never been committed to the fight against corruption as well as his willingness to further open our national vaults to ravenous treasury looters in the APC. “Moreover, it was appalling to see APC leaders come out one after the other at their national jamboree to spew out lies and false performance claims on the economy, infrastructure and security even in the face of biting economic hardship, high cost of living, excruciating fuel emergency, lingering crisis in the education sector and escalated insecurity that was happening real-time and simultaneously when the ridiculous claims of achievement were being made. “Is it not shameful that while APC leaders were lying on stage in Abuja, terrorists were busy attacking the Kaduna International Airport, located in an APC controlled state?” The PDP called on Adamu to “inform Nigerians why he was not courageous enough to submit himself to trial at the Federal High Court, Lafia, Nasarawa State rather than hide under technicalities” “Senator Adamu should therefore come clean to Nigerians on the said case before parading himself as a saint,” it added.