Olumuyiwa Adu, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the February 26 Akure North/Akure South Federal Constituency bye election, has said he spent over N126million on “logistics” on the day of the election. The bye-election was conducted to fill the vacant seat, following the death of the member representing the constituency, Adedayo Omolafe, in August, 2021.  According to Adu who lost the election to Alademayokun Olanrewaju of the All Progressives Congress, an average of N311,000 was shared to each of the 408 polling units in the constituency on the day of the poll. The former military officer added that he should be praised by party members for releasing the largest funds in the “history of Akure Federal Constituency elections.” “The attention of the Media Team of Barrister Olumuyiwa Adu Campaign Council has been drawn to rumour making it round that the People's Democratic Party's candidate in the last Akure Federal Constituency Bye-election, Barrister Olumuyiwa Adu, lost the election because of lack of funds,” a statement by his spokesperson, Olakunle Alade-Fayehun read. “We want to state it clearly that our candidate, Barrister Olumuyiwa Adu, released enough funds for logistics to all the Polling Units across the whole 23 Council Wards, For record purpose, between N311,000 and N320,000 was released to each Polling Unit for the election while our major challenger, Mayokun Lawson of All Progressive Congress released N200,000 to each polling unit. “To set the record straight, our party, PDP, was facing a sitting president, a sitting governor and a sitting minister who brought thugs from different Northern states during the election; so our candidate didn't lose because of inadequate funding “Recall that no candidate in the history of all elections in Akure North and South had ever released such huge funds which Barrister Olumuyiwa Adu made available for the last election. “We however implore our leaders, members and supporters to shun the lie going round to smear the image of Barrister Olumuyiwa Adu. Rather, we should be praising the candidate for losing to the federal might with less than 2,000 votes. We should also be praising Barrister Adu for releasing the largest funds in the history of Akure Federal Constituency elections. “To our supporters, we want to assure that mistakes have been learnt just as Barrister Olumuyiwa Adu is coming out stronger.”