A human rights group, Concerned Nigerians, has given the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seven working days to prosecute former governor of Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu over cash-carrying bullion vans seen at his home on the eve of the 2019 presidential election. On the eve of the presidential election, two bullion vans were seen entering the house of Tinubu in Ikoyi. When the politician was quizzed about it by journalists, he dismissed the question, saying he held no public office and could choose to spend his money as he wished.  The EFCC had called for petitions to allow it to launch an investigation into the matter. The Concerned Nigerians group filed a petition on October 25 of the same year, however, till now, nothing has been heard of such investigation. Concerned Nigerians, in a letter signed by its convener, Deji Adeyanju, has however given the EFCC 7 working days to prosecute the APC chieftain or it will approach a court to issue an order compelling the commission to perform its statutory duties. The letter reads, “You will recall that on the 25th day of October 2019, we submitted a petition to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (E.F.C.C), requesting an investigation into the appearance of bullion vans in the compound of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on the eve of the 2019 elections. The petition is herein attached. “However, we note that more than two years after the petition was received and acknowledged by the EFCC, the commission is yet to prosecute Bola Ahmed Tinubu or in the alternative, issue us with a copy of its investigation report. “Ironically, in the intervening period between our first letter and this reminder, the commission has investigated several high-profile suspects, mainly of the opposition stock, and even charged some to Court. Just recently, the Commission arrested the former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Willie Obiano, and leaked a video of him under the EFCC's custody. “We, therefore, wonder why is the commission unwillingly to investigate and prosecute Mr. Bola Ahmed Tinubu? The only conclusion we can arrive at is that the commission engages in selective prosecution of suspects, contrary to the clear dictates of the law. “It is important to remind the commission that section 1 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act states that no person or body corporate shall, except in a transaction through a financial institution, make or accept a cash payment of a sum exceeding N5,000,000 (in the case of an individual) or 10,000,000 in the case of a body corporate). “You may note that the present government rode on to power on an "anti-corruption mantra". It is ironic to note that the commission is unwilling to investigate and prosecute one of the government's major backers, contrary to the president's stance on total anti-corruption fight, irrespective of whose ox is gored. “Sequel to the foregoing, we, hereby, demand that the commission initiates criminal charges against Mr. Ahmed Bola Tinubu or send us its investigation report on our earlier petition in the event that the commission finds him innocent), within seven working days from the receipt of this letter. “Please take note that if our demand is not complied with within seven working days from the receipt of this letter, we shall approach a court of competent jurisdiction, seeking an order compelling the commission to perform its statutory duties.”