Four policemen have been arrested by the police authorities over claims that they are behind the planned strike action to be embarked on by junior officers on Saturday. SaharaReporters gathered that the four policemen are currently in detention at the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) in Abuja. Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba Some policemen had last week said they would embark on the warning strike to protest against poor working conditions, poor salaries, lack of genuine welfare benefits and outdated weapons.  A protest tagged “We are tired of negligence” is also scheduled to be held at the Eagles Square in Abuja to reiterate their demands to the Nigerian government.  The officers condemned the continuous killing of their colleagues by armed robbers and terrorists, without adequate compensation for their families.  They accused the Nigerian government of lying about the increment of police salary and other promised benefits and demanded improved conditions of service, particularly salary increase and provision of modern weapons as they tackle the security challenges facing the country.  Reacting, Inspector-General of Police, Mr Usman Baba, warned the officers against such actions.  According to Baba, any strike action by a lead security agency such as the police is tantamount to mutiny.  However, the policemen insisted that there was no going back on the planned industrial action.  “Four policemen they tagged our leaders have been arrested and detained at FCID in Abuja,” a source told SaharaReporters.  The source added that Baba has directed all heads of police formations across the nation to ensure the personnel attached to them are at work as early as 8 am on Saturday, March 26.  SaharaReporters gathered that any policeman who fails to report for duty on Saturday would be treated as having an ulterior motive or joined for the strike.  As a result, Commissioners of Police, DPOs and other heads of departments are expected to render hourly situation reports about happenings in their areas until stand down, even as supervising officers are to maintain a register in all offices of the command and formations.  Also, no officer is allowed to travel without permission as doing so would be severely sanctioned, a signal by the police seen by SaharaReporters read.  “IG has also ordered all policemen to work for 24 hours in uniform, hoping the move will avert the planned protest and strike action,” another source said.  Meanwhile, the presidency has warned the Inspector-General of Police that it would not tolerate any industrial action.  Sources said Baba has been shuttling between the Presidential Villa and his office where he was told that the government cannot afford a police strike.  “The IGP has been shuttling between Villa and his office. The police hierarchy has been restless since the news of the strike filtered into cyberspace. Baba is really afraid,” a presidential source told SaharaReporters.  The last time the police went on strike was under President Olusegun Obasanjo, an action that led to the removal of the then Inspector-General of Police, Musiliu Smith.  Smith was appointed on May 29, 1999, and was relieved of his duties on February 2, 2002.  He is currently the chairman of the Police Service Commission.