Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has urged his followers to remain resolute and undivided in their struggle for the actualisation of Biafra. This was contained in a statement issued by Ifeanyi Ejiofor, lead counsel for the detained IPOB leader. Nnamdi Kanu



According to him, during the routine visit of the lawyers on Thursday, they were granted access to Kanu whom he said was in high spirits.Kanu had also taken out time to explain why he protested the refusal of the Department of State Services to grant his lawyers access to him, Ejiofor noted. He said, “The court-ordered routine visit to our indefatigable Client - Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu was observed yesterday, 3rd March 2022.”After days, which turned into weeks of grandstanding, we were able to meet with our Client- Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. In his unshaken/undeterred resolve, Onyendu was in high spirits yesterday.”Onyendu took time to explain why he protested against the denial of access to his lawyers during the last three successive visits. He was deeply troubled with those incidents, particularly when it was done in flagrant disregard and violation of extant Orders of Court.“We understood Onyendu’s grouse and seized the opportunity to intimate him of the measures we have taken so far to ensure that such ugly incident does not reoccur.”He added: “We all agreed that this is a very critical period as victory is staring on our faces and, any opportunity offered to be distracted will take us back because the enemies are united in their resolve but their evil plots are all surmountable. “On a lighter note, Onyendu requested his visiting team to make out time to hang out and enjoy some bottles of drinks.“In summary, Onyendu is in a very strong and firm spirit now than before. He implores all his followers and UmuChineke to remain undivided, resolute and unshaken in their resolve for victory.“Onyendu assures everyone that he will come out victorious and stronger. He commended his supporters and UmuChineke, and urged you to remain prayerful and continue to be peaceful in your conduct as you have always demonstrated over time. Onyendu is profoundly proud of you all.“We appreciate you all, UmuChineke, for your support and perseverance. Be assured that it will surely end in praises.”