Nollywood veteran, Kanayo O. Kanayo has made an appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari concerning the release of the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. Kanu is facing charges bordering on treasonable felony instituted against him in response to years of the campaign for the Republic of Biafra through IPOB. He has remained in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) since he was arrested and extradited to Nigeria.In July 2021, IPOB ordered a sit-at-home every Monday in the South-East to protest against Kanu’s detention until he is released. The proscribed separatist group also declared that the region would be locked down any day Kanu is to appear in court. Although IPOB later withdrew the order, economic activities are still grounded in the South-East on Mondays and any other day Kanu is to appear in court. Joining the fray in his 60th birthday message on Wednesday, Kanayo pleaded with Buhari to order the release of Kanu from detention. He noted that due to the sit-at-home, commercial and social activities have been grounded in the affected communities, leading to a breakdown of economic growth. In his appeal addressed to the president, Kanayo noted that he was not speaking on behalf of his fans but that his request was his personal 60th birthday appeal. He said, “Sir, on this occasion of my 60th birthday, I want to make an appeal to you as a son and a patriotic citizen whose industry contributes meaningfully to the Nation’s GDP. “I’m deeply pained by the loss of lives, wanton killings and general insecurity in the land. You’re the father of the nation with numerous sons and daughters, including Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “Sir, the buck stops at your table, I know and appreciate that Nnamdi Kanu’s case is before the court and you usually do not like to interfere with court cases but at this stage of heightened tension, you are a president with executive powers. “My appeal sir, biko (Please), release Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, it is my 60th birthday appeal. Thank you, sir.”