A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa has urged the Lagos State government to apologise to the family of the late Bamise Ayanwole and compensate them with N100 million.The 22-year-old fashion designer, Bamise, was found dead in Lagos after boarding a Bus Rapid Transit, BRT, bus heading to Oshodi from Chevron bus stop, Lekki. She was said to have been raped before being killed. Her corpse was later found on the Carter Bridge. The police have since arrested Andrew Nice Omininikoron, the driver of the BRT bus, who is the prime suspect.The bereaved family has demanded justice for her.However, in a statement on Tuesday, the human rights lawyer, who praised the Lagos State government for its swift response to the issue, called on the government to apologise to the family.Adegboruwa said, “The Lagos State Government today fulfilled its promise to prosecute the driver of its BRT Bus that was alleged to have raped and killed Miss Bamisile. The driver was arraigned before the High Court of Lagos State on criminal charges of rape and murder. The poor lady was said to have been raped inside the BRT bus and then thrown out whilst the bus was in motion. “I commend the Governor of Lagos State and the Honourable Attorney-General of the State, for the speed with which they have handled this matter so far. The quality of legal representation, through the well-experienced Director of Public Prosecution, Dr Babajide Martins, is a testimony of the commitment of the government to do justice to the case. This is how it should be done, in all cases where the lives of citizens have become endangered. “However, and in the light of the evidence available that the facility (bus) and employee (driver) of the government were deployed to commit the crime, it is necessary for the Lagos State Government to reach out to the family of the deceased, first to offer an apology and give healing to the grieving parents and siblings and then secondly, to offer adequate compensation (not less than N100,000,000:00), to the family. Without this, there will continue to be a missing gap. “Furthermore, I do humbly urge His Excellency the Governor of Lagos State to fulfil his promise to equip all public transport buses with infrastructure and facilities that will enhance the security of all passengers. “I commend all the good people of Nigeria who have kept on the pressure for justice in this case, especially the civil society organizations and the media.”