The African Action Congress (AAC) has condemned the arrest of Inspector Adebimpe Olorundare by the Nigerian police authorities. SaharaReporters had reported that Olorundare was arrested in Jos, Plateau State and identified as one of the “agitators of the planned police strike action”. 





Some policemen had last week said they would embark on a warning strike to protest against poor working conditions, poor salaries, lack of genuine welfare benefits and outdated weapons. A protest tagged “We are tired of negligence” is also scheduled to be held at the Eagles Square on March 26 in Abuja to reiterate their demands to the Nigerian government. Reacting in a statement, Femi Adeyeye, National Publicity Secretary of the AAC, called for Olorundare’s immediate and unconditional release. The party also called on police authorities to stop further intimidation and harassment of protesting officers. The statement read, “It’s time to stand fully with our Policemen who have come to the revolutionary light and are planning to go on strike and protest till their demands are met. These men and women have taken this bold step and must not be abandoned. Here are their demands- “Immediate implementation of the announced salary structure. The Buhari regime must stop lying about increasing their salaries while it does not reflect in their take-home. “Proper payment of Pension and other emoluments for retired officers. Adequate welfare, better conditions of work and renovation of barracks. “Provision of modern equipment and weapons to fight crime, so as to prevent the unfortunate killing of police officers by criminal gangs in the country.  “Adequate compensation to families of police officers who have died in the line of duty. To every activist who has been demanding that the police workers organise themselves in a union and fight for better working conditions, the time to show solidarity is now. “For us at African Action Congress - Nigeria, we are ready to march with the oppressed workers of the Nigerian Police any day, anytime. “It is to this end, we demand the immediate release of one Inspector Adebimpe Olorundare, identified already as one of the organisers, and that the Nigeria Police Force stop further intimidation and harassment of protesting officers. The police bureaucrats must desist forthwith, from making an already bad situation worse. “Shouldn’t it be clear to the (Muhammadu) Buhari regime by now that you can’t arrest the people’s yearning for freedom? We are in this together and we shall overcome together.”