Ebelechukwu, wife of Willie Obiano, immediate past governor of Anambra has narrated her side of the story regarding her fight with Bianca Ojukwu, a former ambassador and widow of Chukwuemeka Ojukwu. On Thursday, during the inauguration of Charles Soludo as Anambra governor, Ebelechukwu and Bianca fought after a heated exchange. Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano’s wife, Ebelechukwu Obiano
247ureport During the heated conversation between the duo, Bianca slapped Obiano’s wife, an incident that caused a commotion at the event. Speaking through her spokesperson, Chidiebele Obika, Ebelechukwu said she had left her seat to greet the former Ambassador but the latter reacted to her greeting by slapping her. She said all she did was approach the former beauty queen for their usual friendly banters only to be slapped and pushed by her. Obiano’s wife wondered what brought about "so much anger and hate" that would cause a former diplomat to be unable to "manage herself in public". She stated that she didn't bother returning the slap, instead, she walked away in utter bewilderment. In her account of the incident during an interview with Arise TV last Friday, Bianca said she was already seated when Ebelechukwu arrived at the venue of the inauguration. She said, ''I didn't pay any attention to her arrival. Surprisingly, she then walked towards me and I thought she was coming to greet me. “Instead, she verbally attacked me with her voice raised, taunting me and asking me what I was there to do, using unprintable, vile language. “She asked if I had come to celebrate their last day in office but I ignored her completely. Then she kept on aggressively putting her hand on my shoulders and shouting. While I ignored her verbal onslaught as advised by people sitting around me, I requested twice that she refrains from touching me with her hands. “She proceeded to do so yet again and tried to touch my head and remove my headtie. It was at this point I stood up to defend myself and gave her a dirty slap to stop her from attacking me. “As she made towards me, I den pulled away her wig, she then held on to her wig with her two hands and tried to take the wig away from me. “The former APGA (All Progressives Grand Alliance) chairman, Umeh, told her to leave me and told everyone to leave. I was stunned by the stench of whisky in her breath at such an early hour of the day. “How could the first lady be so drunk at that time? I stayed back to watch the ceremony till the end and left with my dignity intact.”