The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) Secretary, John Akpanudoedehe, has said that Yobe Governor Mai Mala Buni remains the National Chairman. Akpanudoedehe stated this on Tuesday while addressing the media at the party headquarters in Abuja. File Photo Allies of the ousted National Chairman, Buni, took over the Buhari House national secretariat of the party. This is even as Akpanudoedehe who had stayed away from the secretariat, was seen at the venue on Tuesday accompanied by the Kogi State chairman of the party, Abdullahi Bello and some aides of Governor Buni. Many Nigerians were shocked when Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State, last week Monday, made a dramatic entry into the party’s national secretariat in Abuja to preside over the caretaker committee meeting. He, thereafter, administered the oath of office on the controversially elected state chairmen of the party. But on Tuesday, Akpanudoedehe said, “The CECPC was appointed, and has always done her best, to steer the affairs of the APC in line with the mandate invested in her at inauguration by the National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress. “On the 28th day of February, 2022 the CECPC Chairman (Buni) took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day to day management of the APC. “In his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency in order to satisfy the Timetable for the 2023 General Elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “All such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the Chairman, Secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed or replaced. “The CECPC is intact and functional as originally constituted. Delivering a seamlessly successful National Convention for the APC on March 26, 2022 is top on priority for the CECPC. “We shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the Chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume Office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders."