A Peoples Democratic Party group in Kaduna State has accused lawmaker representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Uba Sani, of diverting funds belonging to the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending to party executives of the All Progressives Congress. In a petition addressed to the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Abdulrasheed Bawa, the concerned PDP members alleged that Sani’s action was to secure the governorship ticket of the APC, adding that the move has created political tension in the state.  According to a copy of the letter acknowledged by the office of the EFCC chairman and seen by SaharaReporters, the group accused the APC senator of using funds meant for Nigerians to bribe party executives. The petition added that the APC in the state has “continued to show brazen corruption and lawlessness”. The group revealed that there are video evidences showing where Sani promised to share NIRSAL COVID-19 loans to party delegates. “The chairman is hereby informed of the political activities of one Senator Uba Sani, represent who has launched his gubernatorial campaign for the position of governor of Kaduna State with a promise to share NISRAL COVID-19 Loans to APC party delegates,” a part of the petition signed by Elias Timburk read. “His videos at different local governments showing evidence of this activity can be seen on social media and is hereby attached in a flash drive and submitted with this petition. “We hereby urge the EFCC to investigate and sanction urgently the APC and its aspirant, Senator Uba Sani who is clearly using the elections to commit financial crimes against the people of Kaduna and Nigeria,” it added. Reacting, the lawmaker in a statement by his Zonal Chief Constituency Officer, Abubakar Rabiu Abubakar,.asked the EFCC to not to consider the petition. According to Abubakar, Sani has encouraged and mobilised over 10,000 members of his constituency to benefit from the scheme. He also denied the allegation that he was compiling account numbers for the purpose of bribing electorates. "The EFCC have enough on their plate to worry about, not to be treating ill-conceived and mischievous petitions that are not grounded in facts or logic," he added.