A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on Monday threatened to strike out the N2.9 billion money laundering criminal charges brought against Senator Rochas Okorocha by the Nigerian Government. The judge, Justice Inyang Eden Ekwo threatened to throw out the charges following the inability of the government to serve Okorocha the charges against him as required by law. The senator is being put on trial by the government on 17 counts involving criminal diversion of public funds and properties. The charges dated January 24, 2022, was signed by one A. O. Ikota on behalf of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Okorocha, who is representing Imo West in the National Assembly, is to face trial alongside six others in the N2.9 billion money laundering criminal charges.However, the government for the second time through its counsel, Mr Cosmos Ugwu, told Justice Ekwo that he had not been able to see Okorocha and serve him with the charges.The court was informed by the counsel that he would make effort until he succeeds in serving the former Imo State governor with the court papers.He subsequently applied for another adjournment to enable him to do everything within his power to serve the court papers in line with the provisions of the law. However, the judge frowned on the lawyer's failure to serve the former Imo governor, reminding him that he said the same thing on February 22 when the defendant ought to have taken his plea. Justice Ekwo said he would no longer tolerate any excuses from the lawyer regarding his job.  The judge, therefore, granted the request for the second adjournment and warned the lawyer against being sloppy. Ekwo also threatened to strike out the case. “Let me place on record, that this is the second time this flimsy excuse is being made to justify the absence of the 1st defendant (Okorocha) in court to take his plea. “As the prosecutor, you must demonstrate seriousness in the discharge of your duties. This is the last adjournment I shall grant in this matter."If on the adjourned date, you come up with the same flimsy excuses, I shall have no option but to strike out the charges,” the judge warned.He subsequently fixed May 30 for the next adjourned date, when he expects the prosecution to have done its job.