Chairman of Lagelu Local Government Area of Oyo state, Kazeem Adeyemi Gbadamosi, was on Friday sighted brandishing a gun at a social function held at Akobo area, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The incident occurred during the burial ceremony of the late father of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman in the local government area, Chief Femi Falowo, Tribune reports.  Narrating the incident to reporters, a resident, Mr Segun Durojaiye, indicted security agencies for watching while the chairman was messing around with the gun.Durojaiye, who was at the ceremony, said: “It was a usual social gathering, but for the fact that it was the burial ceremony of a politician’s father, the event attracted politicians from across the nooks and crannies of Oyo State. Security personnel, both local and government were on the ground. “Trouble started when an aspirant of the House of Representatives seat for Lagelu/Akknyele federal constituency, Adetokunbo Abideen Adeaga, arrived at the venue alongside his supporters and local hunters who were present welcomed him with gunshots. It was at this point that the security personnel recruited by the local government authority started shooting, a development that prompted guests at the party to run for safety. “As this was ongoing, Gbadamosi, probably frightened by the presence of Adeaga, snatched a gun from one of the local government security personnel and attempted to shoot. It took the intervention of Adeaga and some other people to prevent him from shooting. “I want to on behalf of other residents call on the Governor of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde to please call Gbadamosi to order in order to avert future occurrence, not to put residents under unnecessary tension and also not to tarnish the image of the government of Oyo State.”While reacting, Gbadamosi in a telephone conversation told Tribune that the incident was an attempt to kill him. He said: “I see what happened last Friday as an attempt to assassinate me. I was shot at twice; I can recognise the guy who shot at me. He was putting on a different dress. Adeaga came into the venue of the party with some guys in complete black attire. “Initially, I did not want to talk on this matter because it all happened in the presence of men of the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigeria Police. “What came to my mind when the shooting was ongoing was that it was a deliberate attempt to kill me just like they killed two lawmakers from our constituency, late Honourable Segun Oladimeji, aka Segelu and Olatoye, aka Sugar. I collected a gun from the security personnel to defend myself. If I did not do that at that point in time, I would have been a dead man by now.”