The Nigerian government will on Monday, March 8 arraign the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCP, Abba Kyari, on eight counts bordering on drug trafficking. Kyari, alongside six others, will be arraigned by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) before Justice Emeka Nwite of a Federal High Court (FHC), Abuja.  The other defendants in the charge marked FHC/ABJ/57/2022 include Sunday J. Ubia, Bawa James, Simon Agirigba and John Nuhu. The defendants are members of the police intelligence response team (IRT). Others are Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne, two alleged drug traffickers who were arrested at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. In the charge filed by Joseph Sunday, NDLEA director of prosecution and legal services, the agency accused Kyari and the four other police officers of conspiracy, obstruction and dealing in cocaine weighing 17.55kg. It also alleged that Kyari and his men unlawfully tampered with 21.25kg worth of cocaine. Umeibe and Ezenwanne were accused of conspiring with others at large to import 21.35kg of cocaine into the country. They will all be arraigned before the court on March 8. Meanwhile, a human rights lawyer, Inibehe Effiong had urged the agency to stay action on filing charges against the disgraced police chief, Kyari. The suspended police chief was remanded in the custody of the NDLEA after attempting to bribe an official of the agency with $61,000 to facilitate the release of seized cocaine. Kyari had also been accused of committing wire fraud, money laundering and identity theft. He was also accused of working with Ramon Abbas, aka Hushpuppi, who has pleaded guilty to Internet fraud. A grand jury in April 2021 filed an indictment against Kyari with the approval of the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. On Wednesday, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), filed an application before the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court in Abuja for Kyari’s extradition. The application marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/249/2022 was filed under the Extradition Act.