The Nigerian government has said that 193 out of the 2357 returnees from Ukraine have tested positive for COVID-19 and are being managed according to the nation's protocol. This was disclosed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chairman, Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, on Monday in Abuja at the national briefing of the committee.  He said, “The Port Health Services have so far screened about 2,357 Nigerians evacuated from Ukraine for COVID-19 out of the over 8,000 residents or students living in Ukraine. “Out of these passengers, 193 tested positive to COVID-19 and are managed according to our protocols.” The government also announced that it has revised the International Travel Protocols, which should come into effect on Monday, 4th April, 2022. The implication of this is that vaccinated international travellers visiting Nigeria from the said date, will no longer be required to take the pre-departure Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) COVID-19 test. He, however, said that those in such category would be needing to take a free rapid antigen test on arrival at the airport. While saying that the same protocols for the fully vaccinated will apply to travellers between ages 10 and 18 years, Mustapha said that unvaccinated or partially vaccinated international travellers will still be required to take the PCR test 48 hours before boarding a flight to Nigeria. “We still have the National Response in place as we continue to monitor global trends and adapt them with our situation in the country. “There has been a consistent decline in the number of cases around the world but that does not give us the leverage to let our guards down yet because there are predictions of rebounds as we can see in China, South Korea, Germany, Vietnam, France, Hong Kong, among others.“In fact, China has reintroduced lockdowns in some cities due to the spike in cases. “So far, the world has recorded over 471 million confirmed cases, 6m deaths and over 11bn vaccine doses administered, while in Nigeria, we have recorded 255,103 and 3,142 persons have died as a result of COVID-19. “We have vaccinated over 20million persons with at least the first dose. This number is not very encouraging, hence, the need for all eligible Nigerians to come out and be vaccinated,” he said. He further clarified, “In-bound (fully vaccinated) passengers arriving in Nigeria will no longer be required to take a pre-departure PCR COVID-19 Test; on arrival, for fully vaccinated passengers, a sample will be taken at the airport for rapid antigen test by the NCDC within the arrival hall of the airport. “Passengers who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated shall take a COVID-19 PCR test 48 hours before departure, or do a Day 2 and day 7 test on arrival. Such passengers will be expected to pay for their PCR tests through the travel platform; “Fully vaccinated passengers will not be charged for arrival rapid antigen tests at the airport; rules that apply to fully vaccinated adults also apply to children aged 10 – 18 years; they will not be required to have pre-arrival PCR tests but will have a sample taken at the arrival hall but not charged,” He also said that all passengers travelling out of Nigeria are encouraged to be fully vaccinated and to fully comply with COVID-19 protocols and requirements in their country of destination.