Over N10billion has so far been expended on the construction of a lingering State House Clinic, the Permanent Secretary, State House, Tijjani Umar has said. This comes as President Muhammadu Buhari continues his all-expenses paid medical sojourn in the United Kingdom.  SaharaReporters had reported that President Buhari on Sunday departed the country for UK on a routine medical checkup. This was made known by the Special Adviser to the President, Femi Adesina. On the State House Clinic, Umar on Tuesday disclosed that the Federal Government had so far released N10.06billion for the construction of the Presidential Wing of the State House Clinic, Aso Villa. He made this known in Abuja while giving an overview of the financial status of the project, scheduled to be completed in December 2022. In an oversight inspection of the project by the Senate Committee on Federal Character and Intergovernmental Affairs, he said the N416.6 million budgeted for the project in 2020 and N1.06 billion in 2021, had already been paid in full. He added that out of N20.8billion budgeted for the project in 2022, N8.5billion was already paid. Umar recalled that President Buhari had granted approval to engage Julius Berger Plc to review and develop the concept design and proceed with the construction of the project as a turnkey contract. “Accordingly, on July 29, 2021, the company was instructed to proceed with the review of the concept design and other site works simultaneously, based on which a roadmap/timeline for the construction of the facility was developed. “In furtherance to this, the site was handed over to M/s JBN on 23rd August, 2021 which proceeded to undertake a necessary and extensive site survey and other ancillary works paving the way for the groundbreaking and foundation laying that was performed by the Chief of Staff to the President on November 1, 2021. “It is instructive to note that the schedule of payment plan which is linked with the work plan that was negotiated with the company is in line with the advice of the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning outlining milestones at which the client is expected to effect regular periodic payment for work done,” he said.