Nigerians in diaspora are raising legal fees for a London-based blogger, Maureen Badejo to defend herself against the General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries, Apostle Johnson Suleman in Court. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that Maureen had been summoned to appear before the Queens Bench Division of UK High Court of Justice over alleged defamation of character of Apostle Johnson Suleman. Apostle Suleman The blogger was scheduled to appear in the court on the 10th of March, 2022. The Court order reads; "This is an Injunction, with other orders as set out below, made against the Defendant on 10 March 2022 by the Judge identified above (the Judge) on the application (the Application) of the Claimant. The Judge: (a) read the witness statements referred to in Schedule A at the end of this Order: "Accepted the undertakings set out in Schedule B at the end of this Order, and considered the provisions of the Human Rights Act 1998 (HRA), section 12. "Until the trial of this claim or further Order of the Court, the Defendant must not by herself, her employees, servants or agents or otherwise publish or further publish the following words defamatory of the Claimant namely (i) "Suleman call himself a minister of God, but these are cultists, hitmen (ii) "Suleman, you see I can't called you an apostle, because I know that you are not. The spirit of God is not in you" (iii) "Go and address your spiritual father that is sleeping around like dog (iv)"dey sleep with, mama sleep with pikin... the one wey hin prick no fit hold one place" (spoken in broken/pidgin English with the true and literal translation being "sleeps with mother, sleeps with child....this person that cannot keep his penis in one place" or words to the same or similar effect until the trial of this claim or further." However, the host of GIOTV, who on Sunday, requested for support from her teeming viewers, fans, and loved ones to assist her financially with her legal cost, had raised the sum of 11,012 pounds from 217 donors as at noon on Tuesday.



See Also






Legal
UK-Based Blogger, Badejo Summoned To Court Over Alleged Defamation of Nigerian Cleric, Johnson Suleman
0 Comments
6 Hours Ago The funds which are being raised through gofundme was titled "Help With Maureen Urgent Legal Cost" with the target of raising 50,000 pounds.