Amid the racist bias against Nigerians fleeing Ukraine, a white man, Moritz Heininger has called for help for a 27-year-old Nigerian man, Placid currently stranded in Germany. According to a post on LinkedIn, Placid was a student in Ukraine but had to flee the crisis in the country to the borders where he was denied access for days. The young man also had to stay without food and shelter for the period.  Heininger, in the post, implied that Placid couldn't get immediate help because he was a black male without a Ukrainian passport. The man, who urged his countrymen to be more accommodating to people irrespective of their colour, said most people are “not willing to accommodate single males and especially people of colour". He, however, noted that the young Nigerian was now with them as he sought job opportunities for him (Placid). The post on LinkedIn reads, “Friends in Germany - I need your help “Please meet Placid, a 27-year-old from Nigeria that studied in #Ukraine until he had to flee when the first bombs dropped. Since last night, he is staying with us. What he had to endure to get to Berlin is beyond belief. “As a single, black male without a Ukrainian passport, he was not allowed to cross the border and was not helped with food and shelter so he had to stay outside for over four days waiting, hoping to be allowed to enter Poland “This photo was taken today when we showed him around in Berlin. He is a very friendly guy and he wants to stay in Germany. Luckily, the German government grants the right to stay and also to work in Germany also for non-Ukrainians who had to flee the country. “Here is what I need your help with: Placid is looking for a #job! He has a bachelor's degree in education & politics and speaks fluent English (no German). He has experience in phone sales/ customer service jobs as well. But he is really willing to take on any challenge. I can guarantee you that he will work his ass as he is determined to make it here in Germany. “Mid-to long-term accommodation. Placid is looking for a room in a WG (Wohngemeinschaft). To all the #students that read this - if you have an extra room and if you are looking for an amazing human to share your flat with, please reach out. “One last word. The amount of help offered to refugees in this humanitarian crisis in Germany and Poland is phenomenal. However, most people are not willing to accommodate single males and especially people of color. Please, please don't discriminate based on the skin color of the person in need. If you put down your name in one of the databases for offering accommodation and they call you, please just say yes. Don't ask for the background/ ethnicity of the person in need “Please reshare to maximize the chance that we find help for Placid. Please send an email to placidiuschimauche1995@gmail.com and myself in cc, so that I can assist if needed: moritz@paydidit.com.”