A former Director of Nigerian Navy Accounts, Rear Admiral Tahir Yusuf (retd.), on the wanted list of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has ordered the destruction of the largest bakery in Zaria, Kaduna State, Bitmas Limited. The bakery is said to be owned by the retired admiral’s estranged wife, Zainab Tahir Yusuf.  SaharaReporters gathered that Yusuf, using armed soldiers and hoodlums during the weekend instituted a series of armed assault, lootings, and vandalism on both residential and business premises of Bitmas Bakery Limited. The fugitive accused his wife of stealing the business from him. SaharaReporters gathered that the company was registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission in 2017 with number 1175101 in the name BITMAS BAKERY LIMITED which listed the bios of Zainab Wantadi Tahir and Habiba Tahir both of No. 1 Block Road, GRA, Zaria, Kaduna State as directors of the company. It was however learnt that Yusuf had recently altered the CAC documents by fraudulently inputting himself as a director in the company. Sources told SaharaReporters that the former military officer started physically abusing Zainab from the first year of their marriage in 2010. The violence, it was gathered, increased as the years went by. A source said Yusuf always hit the woman violently in the presence of family members.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Retired Navy Rear-Admiral Wanted For N2billion Fraud, Connives With Policemen, Orders Thugs To Shoot At Kaduna Residents
0 Comments
1 Month Ago He was also accused of threatening the medical doctor with a gun by sticking the weapon in her mouth. EFCC had accused Yusuf of stealing N2 billion belonging to the Nigerian government while serving as Director of Nigerian Navy Accounts. In 2020, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of a Federal High Court in Abuja ordered the permanent forfeiture of about N500 million found to be fraudulently amassed by the military officer to the Nigerian government. The total amount forfeited was N392, 695,857.87, including $91,955.38 and the sum of £15,050 held in domiciliary accounts. Yusuf, previously second-in-command to the Chief of Account and Budget, Naval Headquarters (NHQ), held the cash in seven accounts- both private and corporate in two banks. The seven accounts were operated under the name of a company, Bitmas Enterprise, in Zenith Bank while two were held in Yusuf’s name in the defunct Skye Bank, now Polaris Bank.



See Also






Corruption
How Retired Rear Admiral, Yusuf On EFCC Wanted List Bought Multi-billion Naira Properties While Serving At Defence Intelligence Agency
0 Comments
1 Month Ago Following the forfeiture, SaharaReporters gathered that Yusuf fled Nigeria to Dubai, United Arab Emirate. The EFCC and National Intelligence Agency also asked the Nigeria Immigration Service and Interpol to place him on a watch list and have him arrested at the point of entry or exit. However, Yusuf sneaked back to the country in October 2021 after he illegally obtained an international passport with the help of some corrupt government officials through the Niger Republic, a source had told SaharaReporters.