A Nigerian man currently studying for a master’s programme in the United Kingdom has accused the management of Denzil Telecoms based in Auchi, Edo State, of refusing to deliver a Macbook Pro 2020 laptop computer he purchased and fully paid for on March 16, 2022. The young man, who gave his name only as Akin, disclosed that he paid N360,000 for the item, which the seller promised to deliver to him in the UK in two days after purchase but has failed to do so five days after the transaction was carried out. According to him, efforts to retrieve his money from Denzil Telecoms have proven difficult as they no longer answer his telephone calls or respond to messages sent to their Instagram page from where he got to know about their activities. “I came across a sponsored post from Denzil Telecoms on Instagram about a Macbook Pro 2020 laptop for N360,000. After concluding negotiations with them, I paid immediately and the item was to be delivered in two days to me in the UK. “But I got a rude shock from the company shortly afterwards when I noticed that they were not responding as fast as they earlier did. When I enquired why there was a delay in sending the laptop across to me in the UK, they claimed that the stock they had was sold out and that they were trying to sort out things. “I began to suspect foul play at that point and started to give them constant follow-up and even asked for a refund shortly afterwards. Till this moment, the item is yet to be delivered to me while my money has not also been returned. “More people are still falling for their tricks and still paying. The company should be stopped and tracked down,” the young man said while narrating his experience with SaharaReporters on Monday. When our correspondent reached out to Denzil Telecoms on Monday over the issue, the vendor’s two mobile lines displayed on their Instagram page and merchandise were switched off. Text messages sent to both lines had also not been replied to as of the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, another customer named Peter Aderoju has accused the Auchi, Edo State-based vendor of refusing to deliver an item he purchased and paid for recently. According to him, Denzil Telecoms has refused to respond to his calls and messages seeking to know why his purchase had not been sent to him since the transaction was concluded.