Nollywood actress, Kemi Afolabi has revealed that she was diagnosed with lupus – an autoimmune disease. Lupus is a disease that occurs when the body's immune system attacks the tissues and organs. In a recent interview with Chude Jideonwo, Afolabi said doctors told her she has only five years to live as the disease currently has no cure. She said she doesn't know how much longer she has to live but her doctors had told her she has only five years out of which she already spent one. Afolabi who quoted her doctor said, “Make sure you are with your loved ones. At least, you still have up to five years.” She added: “I have lupus. It’s not curable. You just have to take medications for the rest of your life.”The actress early this year relived her near-death experience in 2021 briefly hinting at how she was diagnosed with an incurable ailment. The actress revealed that she had been going in and out of hospitals and was also placed on oxygen due to difficulty in breathing. She wrote at the time: “I wrote my will and booked a space with Ebony Vault in 2021 but God showed me how faithful he is despite my unfaithfulness. “Who am I that God is so mindful of my existence? Me ordinary sand that was tossed around from my private hospital to LASUTH, to Army barracks hospital, WAEC and finally LUTH where I spent over three months! “I did COVID test every 48 hours at LASUTH emergency because I was short of breath, was on oxygen for about a month, still no diagnosis after several tests conducted. "Only a mad man says there is no God ooo. Sold my properties after spending all my savings because I knew the thoughts of bringing my condition to the public eye or beg for funds at the time will kill me faster! “Finally I was diagnosed with a condition that has no cure but can be managed by medications and takes me in and out of the hospital at will. “Fluid blocked my lungs, affected my heart from functioning well which was the reason for my breathlessness and that is caused by the condition diagnosed! Surgery was the only option to drain out the fluid fast. “My life has changed forever but I am thankful I am still breathing. “Being in an industry that places high value on appearance, it’s been a struggle taking medications that helps ease the pains but affect my weight and people will constantly remind you of how FAT you’ve become without hesitations. “The year 2021 has been tough! but with God showing up for me and some special people by my side, I made it through.”