The Kaduna State Police Command on Wednesday paraded the alleged killer of Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Maisaka (retd) along with about 200 suspected terrorists and 20 armed robbers.Maisaka was a former director of medical training operation at the Defence Headquarters. The police accused the suspects of terrorising the state.Among the suspects paraded was also a suspected bandit, who was alleged to have killed over 15 persons at different operations, Punch reports. The State Police Commissioner, Mudasiru Abdullahi, also said several dangerous weapons such as 18 AK47 rifles, 2000 live ammunition of different calibre, 11 pump action guns, 10 locally-fabricated pistols, 140 shotgun 12-gauge cartridges, 7 motor vehicles of different brands and 9 motorcycles were recovered from the suspects between January and March 2022. Represented by the state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammad Jalige, the CP noted that the serene atmosphere currently enjoyed by residents was a result of the strategic and tactical deployment of the special units of the Force in the state. He said, “The Kaduna Command during the period under review is not unmindful of the security challenges bedevilling the State, amongst which are banditry, kidnappings, armed robbery and farmers/herders clashes, just to mention but a few. However, remarkable efforts were not spared in addressing the situation which culminates in the relative peace currently being enjoyed by law-abiding citizens in the state. “The relative serene security atmosphere in the state is as a result of the strategic and tactical deployment of the special units of the Force, undercover operatives, conventional police personnel as well as the purposeful synergy within the security architecture in the state. “The sum of these approaches resulted in the successes we are showcasing today with the arrest of over 200 Armed Bandits, 20 Armed Robbery Suspects and the Recovery of 18 AK47 Rifles, 2000 Live Ammunitions of different Calibre, 11 Pump Action Guns, 10 Locally Fabricated Pistols, 140 Shotgun 12-Guage Cartridges, 7 Motor Vehicles of different brand and 9 Motorcycles.”“Let it be on record that the relentless efforts of the Command in investigating the Culpable Homicide case involving late Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Musa Umar Maisaka of No. A27 Makarfi Road, Rigasa, Kaduna, who was assassinated on the 8th November 2021, at the above address has yielded a positive result with the arrest of the principal suspect Muhammed Muhammed Giwa. “The said suspect confessed that he and his cohorts had extorted money, at different times, and running into millions of Naira, from the victim on several occasions by threatening to kill him if he fails to meet up with their demands. “All the suspects being paraded here are currently in various stages of investigation and will be charged to court on completion. Thank you for being our window to the world, may you all be richly blessed as you go back to your various destinations,” the CP added.