The Lagos State Government has taken the Medical Director of King Solomon Hospital in Anthony Village, Dr Abiola Oladosu and his son, Olaolu to court.  SaharaReporters had reported how the Executive Secretary of the Lagos State Health Facilities Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA), Abiola Idowu slapped the 73-year-old doctor and his son.  The incident it was learnt happened on November 8, 2021, when a team of HEFAMAA officials led by Idowu visited the health facility in an unannounced routine monitoring and supervision exercise.  WATCH: How Power-drunk @followLASG Government Official Slapped 73-year-old Medical Doctor Known For Strong Dislike For Bribery After Assaulting Laboratory Manager For Filming Inspection@LSMOH @HEFAMAA_LASGFULL VIDEO: https://t.co/YWf5Utf1ML pic.twitter.com/bjJPqwp1Ef  While performing the inspection and supervision of the medical facility, the executive secretary, who is a medical doctor and not a laboratory scientist, announced that the hospital laboratory was dirty and the medical equipment therein was not correctly calibrated.  Upon noticing that the exercise was being recorded, SaharaReporters gathered that Idowu became uncomfortable, unnecessarily aggressive and violent to the laboratory manager. See Also






PUBLIC HEALTH
How Overzealous Lagos Official Slapped, Assaulted 73-year-old Medical Doctor, Laboratory Manager 
0 Comments
3 Months Ago Specifically, without a reason, she hit the manager holding the mobile phone used for recording the exercise, knocking the phone out of his hand.  Dr Oladosu, in an attempt to defuse the situation and avert further physical abuse, was also assaulted by Idowu and her HEFAMAA team.  The 73-year-old medical practitioner was slapped to the chagrin of his staff and the patients of the hospital who witnessed the ugly and embarrassing incident.  Instead of punishing Idowu for her unruly behaviour, SaharaReporters gathered that Dr Oladosu and his son were charged to court by the Lagos State Government.  The duo were accused of “conspiracy to commit a felony to wit: Resisting Public Officer contrary to section 411 of the Criminal Law, Cap C. 17, Vol 3, Laws of Lagos State, 2015.”  Part of the court documents read, “Dr Ademola Oladosu, Olaolu Oladosu on or about the 8th day of November, 2021 at about 14:00 hours at King Solomon Hospital at 4B, Bola Crescent, Anthony Village in Ikeja Judicial Division conspired among yourselves to resist and obstruct Dr Abiola Idowu, the Executive Secretary of Lagos State Health Facilities Monitoring and Accreditation Agency.”  However, a judicial source told SaharaReporters that the judge the case was assigned to is currently lobbying to become the Chief Judge of the state and ready to do the government’s bidding.  “The Judge they’ve given the case to is Justice A. J. Coker and he’s lobbying to become the Chief Judge of Lagos.  “The plan is they’ve asked him to remand the two victims and he’ll do it. They’ll (Family, others) will push for bail but the court will waste their time and keep them in jail,” one of the sources said.  Meanwhile, a fact-finding ad-hoc committee set up by the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Lagos Zone State Officers Committee (SOC) under the leadership of Dr Adetunji Adenekan to investigate the matter, has released its report. The committee was chaired by Dr Akinrogunde T. Goke. Other members of the committee are Dr Olawale Peters, Secretary; Dr Imefidon Okon, Member; Dr Dapo Asiyanbi, Member; and Dr Folarin Olasogba, Member. On allegations that the ES HEFAMA slapped the Medical Director of KSH, Dr. Ademola Oladosu and his son, the committee said in its report, “2) Allegation that the ES HEFAMA slapped the Medical Director of KSH, Dr. Ademola Oladosu and 3) Allegation that the ES of slapped the Medical Director Son. “Position of Committee on 2 & 3 – The committee could not substantiate allegation 2) from the videos, which was that the ES slapped Dr Oladosu. However, there was a physical assault on his son, Mr. Olaolu Oladosu. “The committee saw in one of the videos presented by KSH, that while the ES was making some jottings on the notepad, the recording camera was now very close to her with Mr Olaolu Oladosu apparently wanting to take a clearer view of the notepad the ES was writing on. There and then the ES lost her cool and there was a sudden swing of the right hand of the ES targeted on the individual (Mr.Olaolu Oladosu) recording the video, which made a direct and immediate impact on Mr Olaolu Oladosu (Son of the M.D) and the recording of the event immediately ended as the camera was knocked off his hands by this action. “The sudden impact on Mr Oladosu qualifies in general term as an assault but for clarity, the available video recording did not contain an account of direct slap on the faces of either Dr Oladosu or his son as alleged. “It is obvious that, with the available evidence in this instance, to determine the veracity of the claims and counterclaims of slapping and being dragged and pushed, a “deeper trial” of eyewitnesses’ accounts under oath is the only way to arrive on a better qualification of the mode of assault vis-a-vis serial slaps or otherwise.” As part of its recommendations, the committee said, “The operations of HEFAMAA should be more transparent in the use of fines, checklist/SOPs and infarctions which should be documented and preferably adopt the use of IT to remove the risk of bias and witch-hunting.”