With effect from April 1, 2022, Jehovah’s Witnesses in Nigeria and across the world will return to their places of worship after observing two years of Covid-19 pandemic restrictions.This was contained in an statement issued by the organisation of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Nigeria. The move back to in-person meetings coincides with two global events being held in all 120,000 congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses.The statement read, “Following the announcement that their in-person religious services will resume from April 1, 2022, Jehovah’s Witnesses are inviting their friends and neighbours to 2 important programs that will hold in their Kingdom Halls in the month of April. These annual programs have been sources of hope and comfort for millions of participants around the globe.“For more than 20 years, 82-year-old Eunice Oguara, who lives in a nursing home in Abuja, has battled with complications from an accident that resulted in immobility and pain. Eunice has held on tight to the hope from the Scriptures that she has appreciated since she became one of Jehovah’s Witnesses some 58 years ago.“In April, Eunice will join millions of Witnesses worldwide, including around 400,000 Witnesses in local congregations in Nigeria, in inviting all to hear the solid reasons for confidence in the hope promised in the Bible during a Bible-based lecture to be held during the week of April 4, 2022.“Living with the hope found in the Bible is so reassuring even those who have lost loved ones in death are not hopeless,” said Olusegun Eroyemi, spokesman for Jehovah’s Witnesses in Nigeria.He added, “God’s original purpose is for the paradise condition of the garden of Eden to be extended globally. His purpose has never changed and will soon be realised.“Faith in these promises has helped 55-year-old Chuks Ejelonu, who lives in Lagos, to see obstacles as stepping-stones. He has been blind from when he was five months old.“Mary Anyosah who lives in Delta State, has been widowed for 26 years and recently lost her daughter. For 56 years Mary has built her life around the hope she found in the Bible as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.“From April 1, Jehovah’s Witnesses in Nigeria and worldwide will open their Kingdom Halls as Covid-19 restrictions allow.  Thus, a 30-minute programme, “Where Can You Find Real Hope?” will be held at a Kingdom Hall near your location.“The public is also invited in-person the following week to the annual observance of Jesus Christ’s death, on the evening of April 15, 2022. Last year 698,762 in Nigeria joined in the virtual event.”