A Twitter user, Aisha Bindawa @ayshabdw who was on the Kaduna-Abuja train last night, has recounted her ordeal during the attack by terrorists. Terrorists had, on Monday evening attacked the Nigerian Railway Corporation train from Abuja to Kaduna and killed some of the passengers. The assailants also abducted some of the stranded passengers.  However, some passengers made it out alive including Bindawa, who noted that the person who sat beside her was shot.  Bindawa said she was already paralysed by fear as she felt her soul leaving her body.  She posted on Twitter, “I never thought I would post again, after the man beside me was shot, I had already started feeling my soul leaving my body too but Allah has better plan for us. May all the souls of the departed be in peace. May Allah reunite the abducted with their families."  I never thought i would post again, after the man beside me was shot i had already started feeling my soul leaving my body too but Allah has better plan for us.. May all the souls of the departed be In Peace. May Allah reunite the abducted with their families. #trainattack   SaharaReporters had reported that eight passengers had now been confirmed dead as the search-and-rescue mission continued in the area.  Sources also confirmed to SaharaReporters that out of 15 patients brought to St. Gerald's Catholic Hospital in Kaduna, two had been confirmed dead, including a lady medical doctor with the hospital, Chinelo Megafu.  SaharaReporters on Monday night also reported that Muhammad Amin Mahmood, an aspirant in the just-concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Northwest Zonal Youth Leadership, was shot during the attack.  However, as of the time of filing this report, it was not clear how critical his injuries were or if he would survive.  SaharaReporters had reported that two cleaners and workers of the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train identified as Loretta and Abdul were confirmed dead.  There were at least 970 passengers on board the train, according to sources familiar with the train service.