Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has publicly lambasted the Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu. Wike, during the inauguration of the Eastern Bypass Road project in Port Harcourt at the weekend, said Shaibu lacked the right to threaten to leave the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  The governor recalled that Shaibu had begged the party for ticket after he and the Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, left the All Progressives Congress, APC, before the last governorship election in the state. Wike expressed surprise that the deputy governor who lost an election in his local government could be threatening the PDP. “And he lost his local government when we were in Edo, he lost. And he would come out on television to threaten the party that there are alternatives, look at the deputy governor, it’s unfortunate,” Wike said. Shaibu had recently complained that they were not welcomed in the PDP. During a recent interview on Channels Television, the deputy governor said he, Obaseki and their supporters could leave the PDP if the party continued to treat them like pariahs. Reacting to the interview, Wike, however, said, “It’s very unfortunate for our party, a deputy governor is wearing khaki, look at it, I’ve never seen a thing like this in my life … who is his father?” SaharaReporters on Saturday reported that Wike also said the PDP would stop at nothing to reclaim the Ebonyi governorship seat following the defection of the governor, David Umahi, to the APC. Wike said it was unfortunate that instead of seeking an appeal to the judgment of the court, the Ebonyi governor resorted to making a reckless statement against the judge. Wike further disclosed that he had written a letter to the National Chairman of the PDP, Iyorchia Ayu, demanding disciplinary action against the Edo State deputy governor, Philip Shuaibu, for his remarks against the party. He said, “Look at a governor making a reckless statement simply because a judge made a judgment according to his own opinion, which you are entitled to appeal up to Supreme Court. “You have called somebody a thief in the market and you’re saying I’m sorry, It is late. That you’re sorry, we the members of the public, we don’t take it. “You give somebody an umbrella and the next day he defects. EFCC will come, he will say let me join them so EFCC will not go against me. You carry the vote of another party and join another party. Can you transfer votes? If you are defecting, leave the seat. “And this will checkmate most of these political harlots who will never sit one place, looking for excuses here and there. “Governor Umahi, be rest assured that PDP will continue this matter down to Supreme Court.” Umahi earlier this week was sacked by a Federal High Court in Abuja for defecting to the APC from the PDP. However, the governor has applied for a stay of execution and approached the Court of Appeal for a review.