Commercial activities resumed briefly on Monday in some parts of Anambra State, SaharaReporters gathered. This may not be unconnected to a directive given by Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, to all public servants in the state to always report to work on Mondays, like every other weekday. Former Central Bank Governor, Charles Soludo



After the resumption of the trial of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, the group called for a shutdown of businesses on Mondays but later rescinded it. However, there have been attacks on some people who go out on Mondays, leading to fear and the continued stay-at-home every Monday as some states have adopted Saturdays as working days. But in a move to return Monday to a normal working day, Soludo on Friday, through the Head of Service, Theodora Igwegbe, directed that workers should ensure they are at their duty posts on Mondays. In a circular dated March 25, 2022, which was signed by Igwegbe, Soludo warned that absence from work on Mondays would attract sanctions. SaharaReporters gathered that some of the workers have complied with the governor's directive though the level of compliance is still relatively low. A source in Anambra identified as Sunday said only a few public servants resumed at the state secretariat, Awka. Sunday said he observed that some offices were opened in the state secretariat but the principal officers were not on seats.“They probably did not come to the office but asked someone to open it to make it seem like they reported at the office,” he said. According to him, only a few public servants resumed at the Ministry of Basic Education and those on the ground claimed their houses were not far away from the place. “They told us that those whose houses are far away do not even bother to report at the office,” he said. He added: “Markets are empty. Both private and public schools are shut. When we visited a park in Awka, no single vehicle was there, whereas when you visit the place on a normal day, they don't have less than 20 vehicles, they run Awka to Onitsha. “As for filling stations, they were shut but a few of them are selling strategically, the attendants don't sit close to the pump until you signal them. They come to sell to you and return to where they were initially. “Also, banks were not open but the few that did were operating strategically. Meanwhile, schools and banks have since lowered the Nigerian flags.” He added that some tricycles were operating in the capital while only a handful of buses were plying the roads for fear of being attacked. While many looked forward to a cessation of the sit-at-home order in neighbouring Enugu and Imo states, residents remained indoors. In Enugu metropolis on Monday, offices, shops, markets, motor parks, barrages, restaurants, markets, banks, filling stations, schools and public places were locked. The situation is said to be the same in Owerri, the Imo state capital.