Facts have emerged on why the Nigerian Government stalled the conclusion of appointing a Solicitor-General of the Federation. The Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation had announced that it was seeking suitable candidates to fill up the vacancy in the Office of the Solicitor-General of the Federation.  The solicitor-general also serves as the permanent secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Several sources told SaharaReporters that the delay may not be unconnected with the unholy alliance between Goddy Jedy Agba, Minister of State for Power and former Attorney-General of the Federation, and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Ado. It was learnt that Agba is keen on facilitating the emergence of his wife, Beatrice, who also has the backing of Adoke as the Solicitor-General. Beatrice was said to have served under Adoke as head the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons. The former minister is one of those being prosecuted by the Nigerian Government in the $1.1billion Malabu oil scam. The Malabu scandal involved the transfer of about $1.1billion by Shell and ENI through the Nigerian Government to accounts controlled by a former Nigerian Petroleum Minister, Dan Etete. Adoke is facing trial over the alleged role he played in the “fraudulent” transfer of ownership of an oil bloc, OPL 245,  regarded as one of the biggest in Africa. “There is an unholy alliance between the husband of Beatrice Agba, the current Minister of State for Power and Muhammed Adoke,” a source at the Justice Ministry told SaharaReporters.“The current Head of Service, Folashade Mejabi Yemi-Esan, who also hails from Kogi as Adoke, was assisted to become a Permanent Secretary by Adoke. “The former minister is now blackmailing her about pay back. Meanwhile, Jedi Agba is keen on facilitating the emergence of his wife as the Solicitor-General, too. Remember, Beatrice served under Adoke as the head of NAPTIP. “Adoke has assured his PDP folks of the control of the Ministry of Justice with the emergence of Beatrice. Jedi Agba, who is pursuing his selfish interest is unable to see the implications of Adoke’s influence and interest. “Adoke’s final trip to the United States for his backache treatment was with the support of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. If you could remember, the last NBA conference sponsored by Wike which happened in Port Harcourt gave a platform for Adoke to address the gathering. “Malami unfortunately is too obsessed with his Kebbi governorship ambition to realise the politics happening in the ministry.”