A graduate of the Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti says he is about to lose a second admission to further his education at a university in the United States of America due to his alma mater’s failure to process his transcript. According to the man who graduated from the Department of Geography and Planning Science in 2001, EKSU management has continued to give him a silent treatment over a legitimate request he made for his transcripts over 15 months ago.  An academic transcript is a certified record of a student throughout a course of study. It is a globally recognised prerequisite for securing admission. Often regarded as proof of education, a transcript, issued after the completion of undergraduate or postgraduate studies, contains basic information about a student and the marks/grades obtained in all courses offered during the course of a study. This information allows a school’s admission board or employer to decide and or verify whether an applicant truly meets the academic qualification for admission or employment. Schools in a foreign country can ask for a student’s official transcript to be sent directly by the institution through mail or a courier service. However, over the years, thousands of people who graduated from Nigerian institutions have lost scholarship, admission, and employment opportunities due to the failure of their alma mater to issue their transcript as and when due. Speaking to SaharaReporters, the EKSU graduate with 962134 as matriculation number said, “I had made a request for the transcript in the last quarter of 2020 and the only information available, since then and after several efforts, is that the records (not even for one semester) of the results are not available. “I cannot overstate that the delay in providing this transcript has stalled my quest for advancement and is at enormous costs to me, apart from being a denial of my rights (having fulfilled the conditions for an award of a degree from the school). “This request is very important to me and I am being caused unquantifiable pain by the disposition of the school to handle this request. “My sincere prayer is that the school acts on this request promptly as I should not be made to suffer for the inefficiency on its part.” He added that he is about to lose admission to further his education again at Western Governors University in the United States over his failure to provide his academic transcript. “They are claiming that records of results are missing because they moved them from one location to the other. I already have a certificate issued to me from the school which confirms I fulfilled all conditions for graduation. “It has resulted in delays for me for I should have completed the programme. They were waiting for the evaluated transcripts to process my admission.” A letter from the US university to the man obtained by SaharaReporters read, “You have indicated that you would like to submit your college-level academic coursework completed outside of the United States for transfer credit consideration to WGU Tennessee. “International transcript(s) require evaluation by an accredited educational credential service that is a member of either the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or the Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICES). “Students can also send previous evaluations performed by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO). “International Education Services. WGU requires that the previous evaluations were performed by AACRAO and not by an AACRAO member. WGU Tennessee works frequently with NACES. You can find a current list of eligible NACES members here. “You can find a current list of eligible AICES members here. To request previous evaluations from AACRAO click here. “When having your international transcripts evaluated, please take note of the following parameters: You need to request a course-by-course evaluation from the agency you choose. Note: Even if your transcripts are in English, they will need to be evaluated for U.S. equivalency. “You may only use one evaluation service. Multiple evaluations for transfer credit will not be accepted. The evaluation process can be lengthy, so expect about a 6 to 12 week turnaround time. “Official copies of these evaluations must be sent directly to WGU Tennessee from the credential evaluation service and should be received by the 1st of the month prior to your scheduled start date. Have these copies sent to: Western Governors University. Attn: Transcripts Department 4001 South 700 East, Suite 300 Salt Lake City, UT 84107. If you have any questions or concerns, give me a call.” When contacted, EKSU’s spokesperson, Bode Olofinmuagun, said he had no comments. “I have nothing to say, it’s only the registrar that can say anything about transcripts,” he said.