President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the terrorist attack on four locations in the Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State in which two soldiers and tens of others were killed. The President described it as a “mindless act of violence” that has no place in a civilised society. This was disclosed in a statement on Wednesday signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Garba Shehu. The statement is titled, “President Buhari condemns attacks in Kaduna State as ‘mindless violence.’” “The primitive and cowardly attack on innocent civilians, law enforcement officials and the destruction of houses and shops is extremely painful and condemnable. The nation mourns with the Kagoro community, where the attacks took place and the military which lost their brave compatriots,” said the President. Buhari says he is keenly following the actions of the Kaduna State Government and security agencies who are doing their job to track the attackers and bring them to justice.  He warned against reprisals that may lead to further violence.  The Kaduna State Government on Tuesday said no fewer than 34 persons, including two soldiers, were killed on Sunday night in an attack on Agban Kagoro in the Kaura Local Government Area of the state by bandits. The state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said four locations of Tsonje, Agban, Katanga and Kadarko came under attack.  According to the state government, over 200 houses and 32 shops were burnt during the attack while three vehicles and 17 motorcycles were vandalised.  Aruwan identified those killed during the attacks to include, Angelina Aboi, Godiya Iliya, Peace Iliya, Stephen Emmanuel, Patrick Pius, Gwamna Ishaya, Philip Joseph, Godwin Latong, Aba Chawai, Nancy Luka, Sophia Luka, Hosea James, Daniel Sofa, Geoffrey Ado, Bala James, Henry Dauda, Augustine Iliya, and  Irmiya Michael. Others are Murna Luka, Monday Buki, Reuben Kumai, Zilien Gudak, Anita Dauda Kawai, Rifkatu Dauda Kawai, Titi Bawa, Jacob Yayock, Samuel Ufui, Silas Bulus, Victor Ayuka, Jummai Yunana, Sunday Tachio and Hope Luka. One person identified as Mrs Abigail Joshua was said to be missing as of Tuesday. 