A passenger who survived the Kaduna-Abuja train attack by terrorists said the attackers told them that they had just started and that the Nigerian government should expect more attacks.    The survivor, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told SaharaReporters on the phone on Tuesday that the terrorists told them in Hausa that they would carry out more attacks.    She said after the terrorists had fired several gunshots at the train, they came inside the coaches to confirm that those who were shot had truly died.    She narrated that the attackers targeted the VIP and business coaches leading to the death of many people.    She said, "We just discovered that the train was shaking and we started hearing gunshots from different directions and suddenly the train derailed. They operated for more than two hours. They continued with the shooting and I managed to enter and hide under the seats.    “They came inside the train and took many people out including a foreigner. They even touched those who had been shot and were on the floor to confirm if they had died. They were saying ‘Kill them all’ in Hausa language.    “They said ‘bring out your money’ and they collected the money of a man who had dollars in the VIP coach. They also shot the former deputy Governor of Zamfara State in the leg.    “The attackers were so happy when they saw the food and snacks that they normally serve the passengers on the train. They went away with the food and drinks."    Speaking further on the attack, she said the attackers fled into the bush upon getting information that the military was on coming.  “It was a horrible experience, they killed many people and I was surprised to hear that security agents and some people were saying nobody died,” she said.    When asked about the role played by the police escort attached to the train, the survivor said many of them ran into the toilet for safety as they could not withstand the sophisticated weapons used by the terrorists    "The incident happened in a rocky area, it was when the terrorists had left that the military arrived and carried some of us because we could not come down by ourselves because of the terrain and the sloppy nature of the area," she said. 