The embattled former Director of Finance in the ex-president Goodluck Jonathan's Campaign Organisation, Ngozi Olejeme, who was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), is said to have secured a soft-landing after defecting to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Olojeme, who is also a former Chairman of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), was paraded before Justice Maryam Hassan Aliyu of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Jabi, Abuja over alleged N3 billion fraud. SaharaReporters, however, learnt that she has secured a soft-landing through the intervention of the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege.Our correspondent gathered that the defection of Olejeme from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling APC was part of the soft-landing agreement Omo-Agege, Delta State chairman of APC, Omeni Sobotie and a few other top members of the APC reached with her regarding her N3 billion alleged fraud case with the EFCC.Olejeme was formally registered into the APC at her Asaba residence a few weeks ago by Ogbueshi Medua Nwafor, Chairman of Ward 5, Umuekwo, Oshimili South Local Government Area of the state.She was issued a membership card by the ward secretary, Amaechi Okonkwo, in the presence of the Oshimili South APC chairman, Dada Okolo and other party leaders.An ally of Olejeme and executive member of the APC in the state told SaharaReporters on condition of anonymity that after Olejeme was alleged duped several millions of naira by some members of his former party, the PDP, she cried to the Deputy Senate President for help.They had promised to get her a 'soft landing' regarding her fraud case.The source said, "I can tell you authoritatively that Olejeme gave millions of naira to these PDP criminals who defrauded her with a promise to secure her a soft-landing in her N3 billion case with the EFCC.“One of the fraudsters is a very popular PDP member in the state and he's one of those heading DESOPADEC (Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission). He also has a case with EFCC and some of his properties, just like Olejeme’s, were seized by the EFCC until he secured them back through only God knows how.“Based on this he approached Olejeme and several millions of naira were released to him but all to no avail, he could not do anything until it was discovered it was all a scam."DESOPADEC is under his grip, he controls DESOPADEC and loots it. DESOPADEC is his cash cow. He is known for amassing illicit wealth. There is another person, who also duped Olejeme. This person is of the same tribe as the first fraudster I talked about earlier.“This other person is a traditional title holder in his kingdom, he defrauded Olejeme of several millions of naira, all in the name of securing a soft-landing for her in her case with the EFCC which she never got until the Deputy Senate President, Omo-Agege and the state APC chairman, Sobotie and a few others came to her rescue and gave her the soft-landing she has been defrauded several millions of naira. "Omo-Agege personally approached the EFCC boss and made sure Olejeme was given a soft-landing through her bail and as we talk that's what she is enjoying today and in reciprocating such gestures and privileges, she decided to join the APC.“Her former party failed and abandoned her in time of her trial. Recently, the state APC ward executive was inaugurated at the party's secretariat in Asaba and after the occasion, Olejeme hosted the Omo-Agege who is representing Delta Central senatorial district in the National Assembly, Peter Nwaoboshi, representing Delta North senatorial district in the National Assembly, state chairman of APC, Sobotie and other top members of the party to a luxury and grand reception at her residence in Asaba, initially seized by the EFCC."The party wards executive inauguration and the reception were singlehandedly sponsored by Olejeme. During the reception at her residence, Olejeme acknowledged that her PDP brothers and sisters abandoned her during her trials and tribulations and that God used Elder Sobotie Omeni, the Delta State APC Chairman and Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege to rescue her and her family.“That they showed her love when she least expected it. As I talk to you, Olejeme’s house in Asaba is like a mecca now. You will be surprised to see the calibre of persons sneaking in and out of her place. And of course, not without bags of money when leaving.“She's a giver when it comes to that. In no distance time, she will be hosting the Delta North APC to another lavish reception. APC is prepared for Okowa and his PDP come 2023," the source boasted.One of the aides to the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed to our correspondent that his boss was actually the 'mask' behind the soft-landing secured for Olejeme.The EFCC had declared Olejeme wanted in 2015 for allegedly diverting N69 billion from the agency before she was later arrested and been arraigned on nine counts. She was accused of abusing her office, receiving bribes, awarding contracts without due process, among others.The High Court in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Jabi, Abuja, presided over by Justice Maryam Hassan Aliyu has ordered that Olejeme should be remanded in EFCC custody. She was later granted administrative bail.All efforts to reach the Deputy Senate President, Omo-Agege, were unsuccessful as he did not answer calls to his mobile phone nor reply to the text message sent to him. Olejeme could also not be reached on her mobile line.