Gift Ohanazeze, mother of Obinna Udeze, the 19-month-old pupil of Arise and Shine Nursery and Primary School, Asaba, Delta State, who was reportedly flogged to death says autopsy result showed that her son died of “Septic Shock.” According to her, the Pathologist who conducted the autopsy had informed that Obinna's death was caused by Septic Shock which resulted from the severe beating he got from his school's headmistress.  Speaking to SaharaReporters on Tuesday, Ohanazeze noted that following the result of the autopsy conducted, the Delta State government will charge the case to court. She said, “They said that septic shock led to his death. The beating led to high blood pressure wish is one of the causes of septic shock. We are waiting to go to the court, the government will charge them to court.” Healthline described Septic Shock as a “severe complication of sepsis that can include very low blood pressure, an altered mental state, and organ dysfunction.”



See Also






News
My Baby Boy Was Only Eight Days In School When The Authorities Flogged Him To Death — Delta Woman Demands Justice
0 Comments
1 Week Ago Recall that the state police commissioner, Ari Muhammed Ali had said a post mortem would be conducted to determine the cause of death of the deceased child. Also, some weeks ago, Ohanazeze had told SaharaReporters that her son had barely been admitted to the school before the sad incident occurred. Ohanazeze, at the time, said she was a single mother who had been struggling to take care of the child and had just moved to Asaba and in a bid to get a job, she enrolled her son in the school. SaharaReporters had broken the story of how the late toddler was beaten by the school administrators. The sad incident was made known by Ebenezer Omejalile, Chief Operating Officer of Advocates for Children and Vulnerable People's Network, a human rights group. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that the baby, a pupil of Arise and Shine Nursery and Primary School, Asaba, Delta State, was given 31 strokes of the cane for playing with water and getting wet.