The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari's visit to Kenya is to cover up his alleged criminal action against its leader, Nnamdi Kanu. Kanu was arrested in Kenya last year and renditioned to Nigeria. He has remained in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) since then. Uhuru Kenyatta with Buhari On Tuesday, the Presidency announced that Buhari would depart Abuja for Nairobi to participate in the Commemoration of the 50th Anniversary of the United Nations Environmental Programme, scheduled for 3rd – 4th March 2022. But in a statement by Emmanuel Powerful, its spokesman, IPOB said the visit was to discuss with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya how to conceal their alleged inhumanity against Kanu. The statement read: "We are the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB under the leadership of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. We want to tell the world why President Muhammadu Buhari went to Kenya. Buhari went to Kenya to induce President Uhuru Kenyatta to see how both of them can collude in covering their crime against humanity which they committed via their roles in the extraordinary rendition of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. "Buhari doesn't want Uhuru Kenyatta to leak more information about what transpired in Kanu's extraordinary rendition. The revelations so far made at the Kenya Court have made Buhari very uncomfortable, hence his desperation to stop further revelations. "Nigeria and Kenya know what fate awaits them over their duplicity in that criminal act, hence the secret move by both Presidents to hold meetings on how to cover their flanks. "Both Presidents know they are guests of the International Court. They cannot escape it! "We, therefore, urge the international community to monitor Buhari's unscheduled trip to Kenya. Buhari and his allies will never succeed in their desperation to scuttle the Biafra restoration struggle. The only thing that will save Uhuru Kenyatta is the truth. He shouldn't allow Buhari to induce him against speaking the truth."