The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as a perfect example of arrogance in failure. The party was reacting to the President's warning to members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) not to allow disunity to destroy the party while using the opposition party, PDP as an example.  The PDP in its reaction said Buhari is presiding over the most rudderless, corrupt, disunited, disorganised, arrogant political party and government in the history of the country. The President had warned his party to maintain orderliness, adding that the current crisis in the party may consume it if not well managed. He had said, “Look at the once-powerful, main opposition Peoples Democratic Party now enfeebled and adrift and learn lessons in disunity, mismanagement and corruption. They failed in 16 years in power and a failure as opposition.” But the PDP in a statement on Sunday in Abuja through its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, said the Buhari administration is a certified failure that has brought unprecedented economic hardship, chaos, escalated insecurity, and a state of anomie to the country. The PDP said: “If Mr. President were ‘present’ as President and party leader, he should have known that the party that is 'enfeebled and adrift', plagued by ‘disunity, mismanagement and corruption'; 'arrogance of power' and 'self-aggrandizement' which he alluded to, is not the PDP but the evidently mismanaged and mutating crisis-ridden APC. “It is important to educate Mr. President on the arrogance of power in his refusal to timeously appoint an economic team or listen to wise counsel on the economy and security. This is why he completely mismanaged our national affairs and turned our nation into the poverty capital of the world and the third country with the highest level of terrorism according to the World Terrorism Index. “Such arrogance of power is manifesting in President Buhari and APC’s refusal to accept failure for the near-collapse of our economy from the $550 billion economy (largest in Africa and 26th globally) handed over to them in 2015 by the PDP; the fall of the naira from about N197 to a dollar to almost N600 today and the hike in petrol price from N87 per litre in 2015 to between N300 and N400 per litre today. “In addition to this, the price of diesel which is a critical component in the productive sector of the economy now stands at inconceivable N700 per litre under the APC. “Is it not arrogance of power that informed the Buhari-led APC administration to import contaminated fuel, induce agonising fuel scarcity on our citizens and yet had the effrontery to tell Nigerians that 'heaven will not fall' over the fuel situation?” It added that the same arrogance of power accounted for the refusal by the APC administration to obey Court Orders, “for President Buhari’s repeated refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill until he was pressured by the PDP and Nigerians as well as his constant disdain toward the people in repeatedly refusing to address the nation on critical issues, notably during the October 2020 EndSARS protest and the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic". “The arrogance and impunity of the APC administration also accounted for its refusal to prosecute APC leaders indicted for corruption; the barefaced denial that no one was killed in the EndSARS protest despite national and international evidence of bloody massacre of our youths at the Lekki Tollgate as well as the failure to account for the billions of naira Covid-19 Funds stolen by APC leaders. “This is in addition to the recent arrogant, corrupt and criminal removal of electricity subsidy without reference to Nigerians among other thoughtless and inhumane actions of the APC government. “Moreover, it is ludicrous that Mr. President who confirmed that the APC as a party of irreconcilable political warlords, is bedevilled by “the infighting we are seeing” instead of the expected “robust debate on the issues that matter”, is looking elsewhere for a lesson in “disunity, mismanagement and corruption”. “Mr. President has so arrogantly mismanaged the APC that it is now plagued by two illegal national chairmen, multiple structures in States; enfeebled to the extent that it cannot conduct a valid National Convention or produce legitimate candidates for elections, with its activities no longer recognised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).”