The International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) in Nigeria has reiterated its calls for greater women participation in politics in the country. The group expressed its grievances over the rejection of the Gender Equality Bill at the National Assembly as it stated that Nigeria, like some other African countries, was lagging behind with regards to equality indicators. File photo used to illustrate story. According to the group, women participation in politics and leadership in Nigeria are very low stating that women are hardly given chances to participate in politics. The position of the group was made known by Amina Suzanah Agbaje, the Country Vice President/National President during her opening remarks on the commemoration of International Women’s Day on Monday. She spoke at a webinar organised by FIDA and monitored by SaharaReporters under a theme, “Gender equality: where we are and a sustainable tomorrow” which had panelists including Osai Ojigho, Country Director, Amnesty International, and Grace Jerry, Executive Director, Inclusive Friends Association. Agbaje said, “As Gender equality advocates, we must admit that without gender equality today, our nation's tomorrow is doomed. Societies that have thrived all over the world have since gone past the issues of gender inequality. Both men and women are treated as equals in the development equation. “The story of most African countries and particularly Nigeria is however very pathetic. Gender inequality steers us in the face relentlessly. “Consequently, if we must achieve a sustainable tomorrow, it is imperative that we work harder to achieve gender equality today. If we must achieve Gender equality today, we need to appraise our present situation. “In Africa today, the Gender equality indicators do not speak well for us. Some of the countries in the continent appear to be doing well, e.g South Africa. However, Nigeria is lagging behind. The indicators still show that; Women's participation in politics and leadership is still very low. Women are given little or no chance to participate in politics. They are hardly found on the decision-making table. “The figures both at National and State Assemblies are nothing to write home about. The political parties make little or no room for Women's participation.  Notwithstanding the Legal and policy framework in place, women are still discriminated against. “Sexual and Gender-based Violence (SGBV) is still perpetrated against Women and girls with reckless imprudence. Women still lack economic empowerment. Harmful traditional practices are still meted out on women and girls. “The enrollment and retention rates for girls in schools are still far from being okay, particularly in the North where you have issues of child marriages; lack of safety (security challenges) patriarchy and culture. Culture and patriarchy consider the world as that of the man.” Also speaking, the AI director, Ojigho called on Nigerian women not to give up the struggle for greater participation in governance and policy.