Sadiq Ango Abdullahi, son of former Vice-Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria and now chairman of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Professor Ango Abdullahi and his late wife, Senator Aisha Jummai Alhassan, popularly known as Mama Taraba, has been confirmed as one of the Abuja-Kaduna train passengers abducted by bandits  SaharaReporters had reported how terrorists on Monday night bombed the Abuja-Kaduna rail tracks and attacked a train filled with passengers.  Subsequently, the Nigerian Railway Corporation on Tuesday announced the suspension of train operations along the Abuja-Kaduna route indefinitely following the attacks.  Sources said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain was among those in the Business Class coach of the train who were abducted by the gunmen.  Sadiq had on 5th February 2022 dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the PDP.  Earlier, SaharaReporters reported that a former Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Malam Ibrahim Wakkala, was among the Abuja-Kaduna train passengers who was shot by terrorists on Monday evening.  SaharaReporters learnt that Wakkala was shot in the leg and had since been hospitalised.  SaharaReporters had reported that out of 15 patients taken to St. Gerald's Catholic Hospital in Kaduna, two had been confirmed dead, including a lady medical doctor with the hospital, Chinelo Megafu.  “A former Deputy Governor of Zamfara Malam Ibrahim Wakkala was equally shot in the leg. Out of 15 patients brought to St. Gerald's Catholic Hospital, two are dead including a lady medical Doctor with St Gerald's.  “Two females moved to 44 Reference Hospital because of bullet wounds; they could not be treated at St Gerald's,” the source had said.  SaharaReporters on Monday night also reported that Muhammad Amin Mahmood, an aspirant in the just-concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Northwest Zonal Youth Leadership, was shot during the attack on Monday.  However, as of the time of filing this report, it was not clear how critical his injuries were or if he would survive.  SaharaReporters had reported that two cleaners and workers of the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train identified as Loretta and Abdul were confirmed dead.  The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank of Agriculture, Kabir Mohammed Adamu, was also confirmed as one of those abducted.  There were at least 970 passengers on board the train, according to sources familiar with the train service.