Nigerians in large numbers on Tuesday stormed the National Women's Development Center, Abuja, venue of the official declaration of human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, to contest for the 2023 presidential election in the country. The massive crowd, mostly young people from all over Nigeria, who donned different attire and were in a celebratory mood, came to show solidarity with a man many of them had adored and loved over the years for his unflinching support for equity, justice and rule of law.  Despite the usual early morning traffic rearing its monstrous head on Tuesday in most parts of Nigeria's capital, the people did not fail to turn out in droves for Sowore. Waving giant-sized flags of the African Action Congress and #RevolutionNow — the political party founded by the activist and on whose platform he will contest next year's election, the cheering crowd also graced the venue in shirts, hats and other regalia synonymous with all the social movements associated with Sowore and his group.The entire hall from as early as 9:00am was packed with jubilant and excited supporters, to the point that there were people who couldn’t find space inside. Those, who graced the event, believe and share in the activist's vision and plans for Nigeria. By the time the presidential aspirant stepped into the hall to officially unveil his ideas to rescue Nigeria from the brink of collapse and set it on the part of greatness where it should be, the entire atmosphere became turbo-charged. Trumpets blaring, drums banging amidst a chorus of voices resonating from every corner of the packed hall, it was a scene reminiscent of a Hollywood blockbuster —a testament to how much the Kiribo, Ondo State-born masses' defender is loved by millions of his oppressed countrymen and women.  Outlining his plans one after the other for Nigeria on the historic occasion, Sowore said, "The two major criminal political parties, All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party are going to stop functioning after today. "Our declaration follows what we started doing in 2018 and 2019 and it is that this country is in need of a revolution and that revolution must bring total freedom for the Nigerian people. "In 2018, I moved around the nooks and crannies of Nigeria, we visited markets, schools, roads, farms. We travelled by road, water and by air across Nigeria. We covered over 35 states. Had we had leaders, the herders/farmers crisis would have been resolved in a very simple way.  "Had we had leaders, we would have hospitals that function today such that the President of Nigeria cannot treat ordinary cold in the country. Had we had leaders, some of them contesting today would never have gone near positions of power. Had we had a country, young people wouldn't be in the positions they are today. "We are going to be releasing a bunch of videos that will show that we have already discussed the solutions to all of Nigeria's problems, starting from security, power because if you don't have electricity you are not alive.  "On infrastructure, if you don't have roads you are immobile. On corruption, if they steal all your money, you have no future. If people can't go to school, they are dead. "On restructuring, Nigeria has become an old engine that must be fixed. I am talking about the restructuring of Nigeria from the beginning to the end. "On technology, Nigeria has technologically-inclined young people but it is being run by people who have analogue brain.  "We are going to make sure that Nigeria works for everybody. We will not leave this country for those who have destroyed it, it is those people that will leave this country for us." In all, it was a day of fanfare, a massive display of love and trust and expression of hope for a better Nigeria by all who graced the historic event on Tuesday. The event followed a court appearance where Sowore ought to have been arraigned for treasonable felony at the Federal High Court, Abuja, but a judge assigned to the case declined to continue, citing conflict of interest and a new judge assigned neither appeared in court nor gave a date.           