The Anglican Church of Nigerian has sacked a priest on the Niger, Rev. Canon Sylvester LumenKristi Eboh, over acts of insubordination. Eboh had earlier this week cried out over his life, saying that some forces in the church were after his life and had also taken away his wife from him.  He also said he had resigned as a priest in the diocese and would henceforth concentrate on running his private ministry, God in Action Adoration Ministry, Ogidi. But the Bishop on the Niger, Rt Rev Nwokolo, who briefed journalists in Awka on Thursday, through the Deputy-Chancellor Diocese on the Niger, Barr Ben Uzuegbu (SAN), said the priest never resigned, but has been sacked. Uzuegbu said, “There have been series of complaints against the priest for a very long time, and all attempts by the Bishop to bring him to answer to allegations against him have been ignored. “This is a priest who went out of the church’s way to register a separate religious group, without the knowledge of the church. “The bishop is the father of all priests in the diocese, and despite all the complaints against this priest, attempts to bring him before the bishop has been rebuffed. “We should not have come to the media with this, but since he has already brought the matter before the media, we feel we should call you all to tell you the true story. “Sylvester LumenKristi Eboh has been using his religious group to make a lot of money from unsuspecting members of the church, which he in turn lavishes on women and a lifestyle of pleasure. “There is still a complaint against him by a lawyer in Awka here that he made love severally to a certain member of the church and put her in the family way. “His wife (priest’s) is presently not living with him because of that lifestyle. The wife complained severally to the church that her husband brought in a strange woman as his secretary, who he later started sleeping with. He is known to have severally beat up the wife in front of this strange woman. When she couldn’t bear it any longer, she had to leave him.” Uzuegbu added Islamic Police, Hisbah Seizes Vehicle With 200 Cartons Of Beer In KebbiOperatives of Kebbi state hisbah board on Saturday has seized at least two hundred cartons of alcohol in Birnin Kebbi. The Hisbah operatives who acted on a tip-off swooped on a particular location around old market area where a car which was loaded with the banned product and was about to be offloaded for sale to the general public was impounded. This, according to the Commandant of the Hisbah Board, Alhaji Suleiman Mohammed run contrary to the laws of Kebbi state which banned the sale and consumption of alcohol in all parts of the state, with the exception of barracks and similar outposts. The state Commandant said that the board will continue to enforce the law until people learn to respect the laws of the state. He noted that the matter will be investigated further and that the case will be handled in accordance with the law. Despite condemnation from Nigerians, the Hisbah group has continued its push for the Islamic agenda in the North. The group is notorious for destroying truckloads of alcoholic drinks. The agency, established to enforce Sharia law in some states in the region, recently placed a ban on the use of mannequins. It also banned stylish haircuts, sagging of trousers and playing of music at social events by disk jockeys.Anglican Priest Sacked For Allegedly Lavishing Church Funds On Women The Anglican Church of Nigerian has sacked a priest on the Niger, Rev. Canon Sylvester LumenKristi Eboh over acts of insubordination.Eboh had earlier this week cried out over his life, saying that some forces in the church were after his life, and had also taken away his wife from him.He also said he had resigned as a priest in the diocese, and would henceforth concentrate on running his private ministry, God in Action Adoration Ministry, Ogidi.But the Bishop on the Niger, Rt Rev Nwokolo, who briefed journalists in Awka on Thursday, through the Deputy-Chancellor Diocese on the Niger, Barr Ben Uzuegbu (SAN), said the priest never resigned, but has been sacked.Uzuegbu said, “There have been series of complaints against the priest for a very long time, and all attempts by the Bishop to bring him to answer to allegations against him have been ignored.“This is a priest who went out of the church’s way to register a separate religious group, without the knowledge of the church.“The Bishop is the father of all priests in the diocese, and despite all the complaints against this priest, attempts to bring him before the Bishop has been rebuffed.“We should not have come to the media with this, but since he has already brought the matter before the media, we feel we should call you all to tell you the true story.“Sylvester LumenKristi Eboh has been using his religious group to make a lot of money from unsuspecting members of the church, which he in turn lavishes on women and a lifestyle of pleasure.“There is still a complaint against him by a lawyer in Awka here that he made love severally to a certain member of the church and put her in the family way.“His wife (priest’s) is presently not living with him because of that lifestyle. The wife complained severally to the church that her husband brought in a strange woman as his secretary, who he later started sleeping with. He is known to have severally beat up the wife in front of this strange woman. When she couldn’t bear it any longer, she had to leave him.”Uzuegbu added that Eboh’s license has been withdrawn and he seizes to be a priest of the church, while also warning members of the church to beware of him, accusing him of being deep into voodoism.