A former federal lawmaker, Shehu Sani, on Tuesday, said the terrorists who attacked passengers on the Abuja-Kaduna train abducted a family of six along with others.  SaharaReporters had reported how terrorists bombed the Abuja-Kaduna train en route to its Rigasa destination with hundreds of passengers on board.  During the attack, many passengers were feared kidnapped, while some were shot dead. Many of the passengers also sustained various degrees of injury.  Sani, who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, in a tweet on Wednesday said, “A whole family in the hands of the train attack terrorists. If this doesn’t touch the heart or prick the conscience of this country’s leaders, nothing will.”  A document released by the Kaduna State Government showed that 398 passengers bought tickets for the trip but 362 of these passengers were validated as having boarded the train through the gate.  It also revealed that eight bodies had been recovered, while 26 were injured.  “The state government appealed to the public to assist with information regarding passengers on the train by contacting the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency on the phone line 09088923398.  “Further updates will be communicated to the public,” the document read.  Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Tuesday visited some of the victims receiving treatment at different hospitals in Kaduna.  Amongst those injured is the former Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Ibrahim Wakkala who is also receiving treatment in one of the hospitals the governor visited.  SaharaReporters had reported that Wakkala was among the Abuja-Kaduna train passengers who were shot by terrorists on Monday evening.  SaharaReporters learnt that Wakkala was shot in the leg and had since been hospitalised.  SaharaReporters had reported that out of the patients taken to St. Gerald's Catholic Hospital in Kaduna, 8 had been confirmed dead, including a lady medical doctor with the hospital, Chinelo Megafu.  SaharaReporters on Monday night also reported that Muhammad Amin Mahmood, an aspirant in the just-concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Northwest Zonal Youth Leadership, was shot during the attack on Monday.  However, as of the time of filing this report, it was not clear how critical his injuries were or if he would survive.  SaharaReporters had reported that two cleaners and workers of the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train identified as Loretta and Abdul were confirmed dead.