The Council of Igbo States in America (CISA) has announced the resumption of physical gathering for the Igbo World Festival and Arts holding in Virginia, United States. This was made known by the President of the Council, Engr. James Ogbuka Umekwe after a meeting of the CISA Governing Council, as contained in a statement issued by Mathias Mgbeafulu, the group's Publicity & Media Director.   According to the statement, the group held the Festival in the past two years virtually due to the COVID-19 lockdown but will resume the 2022 festival in-person at Frontier Museum, Igbo Farm Village, Staunton, Virginia, the U.S.A from July 28 to July 30, 2022. It also invites Igbos from all over the world to join the program, extending the invitation to well-wishers and lovers of arts and culture. The event, according to the statement, is designed to parade the beauty of Igbo cultural heritage in all ramifications. The statement reads partly, “Engr. Umekwe expressed his excitement to go back live to Igbo Village after a two-year COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic shutdown of the festival live celebrations. He however pointed out that during the two-year pandemic (2020 and 2021), the festival completely went virtual given its importance. “He also announced the approval of Sir Felix Nnaji and Dr. Emma Obiesie as Chair and Co-chair of the 2022 Planning Committee respectively; adding that this year’s planning committee embraced all CISA Governing Council members. “CISA is therefore happy to invite Igbo people worldwide, well-wishers and lovers of arts and culture to this year’s Igbo World Festival of Arts and Culture slated for the weekend of July 28, 29, and 30, 2022 in Frontier Museum, Igbo Farm Village, Staunton, Virginia, U.S.A. “This special and vibrant fun-filled live and field event is designed to parade the beauty of Igbo cultural heritage in all ramifications and which over the years have witnessed contingents from Africa, North America, South America, Asia, and Europe. “Since its initial opening in 2008, participants had come from different countries namely – USA, Colombia, Canada, Mali, South Africa, Liberia, Cameroun, Ghana, London, Nigeria, Gabon, Trinidad and Togo, Jamaica, Haiti and Barbados. “The Council of Igbo States in Americas (CISA) urges all to come and witness one of its most unique and amazing cultural exhibitions of Ndigbo outside Nigeria. The festival displays to the world the peculiarities of Ndigbo, their roots, cultural heritage, and cross-continental influences to foster brotherhood among their fellow African American kindreds and to all humanity. “For CISA, this festival is one-way Igbo-Nigerian traditions can better be exposed and their contributions to world development can firmly be cast in bold relief. “Unique cultural and artistic works of the Igbo people are exhibited with pomp and pageantry. This is a celebration Ndigbo, Nigerians, their friends and well-wishers cannot afford to miss.”