National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has demanded a thorough and exhaustive investigation into the shooting of Akinsuyi Samuel, a Business Administration student at the Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic in Eruwa, Oyo State.He was shot in the leg by a yet-to-be-identified police officer on his way from Eruwa to Ibadan, the state capital on last Friday. NANS called on the police to identify the culprit and ensure the offender is arrested, dismissed and prosecuted.This was contained in a statement issued on Monday by Coordinator, NANS Southwest, Comrade Adegboye Emmanuel Olatunji, aka Teejay.In the statement, the students said harassment of students on the Ibadan-Eruwa by officers of the police, particularly officers from Apata Command, must be stopped.  It noted that the affected areas are fast becoming the hotbed of corruption, extortion, harassment and other dehumanising atrocities of the police in Oyo State. NANS affirmed that Mr. Samuel Akinsuyi's hospital bills and security must be borne by the force. The statement reads in part; "As the global community continues to advocate against the wave of police brutality and unprovoked shooting, the aftermath of some mechanisms set up to curtail these ugly incidents have begun to bear fruit in some parts of the world."However, the same cannot be said of Nigeria. On a daily basis, harmless and helpless Nigerian citizens continue to fall victim to bloodthirsty officers who mete out to Nigerians various inhuman treatment ranging from verbal assault, outright assault, unlawful arrest, unjust detention and more often than not, being shot at. "Those saddled with the responsibility of safeguarding us from danger have turned themselves to the actual danger. "On Friday, March 11, 2022, the Nigerian students being one of the most vibrant and vocal supporters of police welfare yet again suffered great injustice from the hands of a reckless policeman. "Akinsuyi Samuel, a Business Administration student at the Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic in Eruwa, was beaten and then shot in the leg by a yet-to-be-identified stop and search police officer, on his way from Eruwa to Ibadan on Friday. "This demonic action has thrown Mr. Samuel Akinsuyi into a titanic battle against paralysis. "It is rather unfortunate that several days after the criminal incident, the Nigeria Police Force, Oyo Command and the Police Service Commission have failed to make convincing action statements over this persistent cankerworm. "As the culture is, most times when an officer of law infringes on the fundamental human rights of the citizens, the police force and the service commission usually perfect a cover-up and make sure that justice is circumvented. "Up till now, the assailant remains unidentified. This is a clear sign of the regular conspiracy practices of the police force. "As we continue to piece the puzzle together, we demand a thorough and exhaustive investigation to identify the culprit and the law be allowed to take its full course through the arrest, dismissal and prosecution of the offender as well as other disciplinary actions though the force itself and the police commission. "In addition, harassment of students on the Ibadan-Eruwa way by officers of the Nigeria Police Force and members of Apata Command particularly must become history immediately. These two spots are fast becoming the hotbed of corruption, extortion, harassment and other dehumanizing actions by the Police Force in Oyo State. "Moreover, Mr. Samuel Akinsuyi's hospital bills and security must be borne by the Force. "Finally, as we scale up a series of activities to get justice for Samuel Akinsuyi, we urge the general public and Nigerian students particularly to be security conscious and report cases of police brutality as soon as possible."