The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it has arrested Osondu Victor Igwilo, a suspect wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the US since 2018. Wilson Uwujaren, spokesperson for the agency disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Uwajaren said Igwilo, 52, is the alleged leader of a criminal network of “catchers”. He was arrested alongside Okafor Nnamdi Chris, Nwodu Uchenna Emmanuel and John Anazo Achukwu at a studio in the Sangotedo area of Lagos. They are accused of fraud, money laundering and identity theft to the tune of about $100 million (approximately N57 billion on the parallel where forex is more easily available). The suspects allegedly perpetrated a scheme involving false promises of investment funding, impersonating United States bank officials in person and via the internet. Igwilo was placed on the FBI watch list following a criminal complaint filed against him in the U.S. District Court, Houston, Texas, in December 2016. The statement read, “It was the end of the road, on Thursday, March 11, 2022, for one Osondu Victor Igwilo, who had been on the watch list of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, since 2018, when operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Lagos Command, swooped on him. “Fifty-two-year-old Igwilo, who is the alleged leader of a criminal network of ‘catchers’ was arrested alongside Okafor Nnamdi Chris, Nwodu Uchenna Emmanuel and John Anazo Achukwu at a studio in the Sangotedo area of Lagos for alleged fraud, money laundering and identity theft to the tune of about $100 million. “Before their arrest, Igwilo and his accomplices had allegedly been involved in an advance-fee scheme that involved false promises of investment funding by individuals who impersonated some United States of America, USA, bank officials in person and via the internet. “Investigation revealed that those who fell victims to the suspects’ criminal activities were asked to make certain payments before they could receive their funding. It was also revealed that proceeds of the scheme were allegedly laundered through U.S. bank accounts and diverted back to the alleged perpetrators in Nigeria. “Consequently, Igwilo was placed on the FBI watch list, following a criminal complaint filed against him in the United States District Court, Houston, Texas in December 2016.”