Some powerful Northern Groups are currently working behind the scene to ensure that former President Goodluck Jonathan returns to power as President come 2023. Findings by SaharaReporters showed that the former President has been tipped by some influential politicians in the region and has been assured of massive support from the North.  Sources said the leadership of the group have met some political leaders in the six group political zones with a view to mobilising and building his support base. Also, the body language of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) indicates that it will zone its presidential ticket to the South amid the internal crisis in the party involving governors and the leadership of the party. Speaking on behalf of one of the groups, Isah Abubakar, who is the president of the Northern Youth Council of Nigeria, said the former President's experience is needed at this time in the country. He said the group would soon visit the former President and prevail on him to contest in 2023. Abubakar stated that the group has endorsed former President Jonathan as the next president of the country. The Northern Youth Council President says at 64, Jonathan is still agile and way younger than many presidents across the world. According to the group, Jonathan’s presidency will lay a proper foundation for the youths to take over in 2027. Abubakar stated this on Saturday, March 12 when he appeared on a news programme on Arise TV. He also commended the various groups that have been clamouring for the return of the former president to Aso Rock in 2023. He said, “I think it is a great innovation to invite the former president to reconsider championing the affairs of this country. “Having been the president of Nigeria at a time for good six years or thereabout, we believe that Jonathan is capable, has the competence and the experience to drive our nation to the next level and as well build upon what the current administration is doing in terms of infrastructure. “We cannot deny the fact that we need experience to govern any country. In countries with presidents at age 35 or 40, the elderly ones must have set templates that would drive the country without supervision. “We have cases in Nigeria where we have young governors, and honestly what they are giving us is not what is expected of them.” When asked what political platform the former president will contest from if he heeds the call to throw his hat into the race, Abubakar said: “What really matters is someone who will take us back to blessed memory where we have that national unity, where we don't feel bad about each other. “Jonathan gave us that platform when he was the president. Jonathan is the only person that has the heart to tolerate whatsoever that comes towards him. “Don't forget he is the first sitting president in West Africa that lost an election and gladly called Mr. President to congratulate him. So, we need people with forgiving hearts. People who can drive the economy to where it is supposed to be. “We are convinced that this man, having been deputy governor, governor, vice president, and later president, lost an election and handed over power to the opposition, is the perfect fit for the job. “I think President Muhammadu Buhari needs to consider handing over to Jonathan if he is ready to contest. We believe with the calls from all parts of the country, he will put it into consideration and contest for the presidency.” The Coalition of Nigerian Professionals in Politics (CNPP) also recently called on Jonathan to contest for President in 2023. The group made the call on Wednesday, March 9 during a world press conference held in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Addressing journalists at the briefing with the theme, “2023: The way forward,’’ Dr. Ibrahim Baba, convener of the coalition, said they felt the need to join other Nigerians in urging Jonathan to come out of his political leave and contest for the office of the President.