A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has adjourned the suit filed by human rights activist Omoyele Sowore against his shooting by CSP Altine Hyelhira Daniel.The court adjourned the matter to April 25, 2022.





Sowore was shot by the police officer at the Unity Fountain in Abuja on May 31, 2021.The activist was shot in the thigh with a projectile gun at close range while attending a protest to demand an end to insecurity in the country.Altine had led a team of anti-riot police officers to the venue. The activist through his lawyer, Tope Temokun in separate suits marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1238/2021 and FHC/ABJ/CS/1239/2021, is seeking an order of the court directing the respondents to jointly pay him (applicant) the sum of ₦50,000,000.00 (Fifty million naira) as general and exemplary damages for the violation of his fundamental rights. The trial judge, Justice Emeka Nwite while presiding over the case on Tuesday said the case was for mention and that the respondents in the case were not in court. He, therefore, directed that the hearing notice be served on the respondents before the next adjournment. The matter was subsequently adjourned to April 25 for hearing.Also, the suit challenging the Divisional Police Officer of the Federal Secretariat Police Station, CSP Abdullahi Abubakar Hassan, who illegally arrested and assaulted Sowore on July 26, 2021 while attending the trial of the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu at the Federal High Court was also adjourned to the same date for hearing. Sowore was violently attacked alongside many journalists by armed policemen led by Abdullahi on the court premises and subsequently arrested and detained. His mobile phones and other gadgets were damaged. Other reliefs sought include: “A declaration that the shooting of the Applicant by officer or officers of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondents, acting under the command and instruction of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondent,  at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, on the 31st May 2021, while engaging in a peaceful rally, constitutes a violation of the Applicant’s fundamental right to dignity of human person, right to freedom of expression and the press, right to peaceful assembly and association and right to freedom of movement guaranteed and protected under Sections 39,40 and 41 of the 199 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Articles 1,2,4,9,10,11 and 12 of the African Charter on Human and People’s Right (Ratification and Enforcement) Act Cap A9 LFN 2004. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Respondents, their servants and/or privies and/or agents or anyone acting through them or on their instruction or command or authority, from further violating the applicant’s fundamental rights, in the manner afore-stated.” 