The inability to procure fuel to power generator at the National Industrial Court (NIC) in Ibadan has forced judges to resort to the use of torches and lamps when writing in the courtrooms. SaharaReporters observed that many courtrooms within the expansive NIC building in the Oyo State capital were darkened due to the absence of light to illuminate the courtrooms for lawyers to also write. Both judges and lawyers were seen sweating profusely under the stuffy condition. SaharaReporters learnt that the courts were unable to access funds to run generators which also do not have fuel due to alleged paucity of funds and the current fuel scarcity in the country.Investigation revealed that all efforts to seek release of funds from the office of the Chief Judge of the Federation to put the courtrooms in good use were futile following complaints of paucity of funds. Some of the senior court officials who were approached for comments on the deplorable situation, while speaking on condition of anonymity, blamed the situation on corruption.They also accused the National Assembly of cutting the annual budget of the Judiciary.“We should blame it on corruption and the National Assembly, which is in the habit of reducing the budget of the judiciary,”one of the senior court officials said.According to them, all the financial requests for the running cost of the court were either turned down or reduced drastically.“That is the pitiable plight we find ourselves experiencing. The usual response is that there is no money because the National Assembly has cut down our budget and as a result, we cannot get the needed money to buy fuel for the generator. “Many other things suffer too.  Our hands are tied. The air conditioners, fans and lights cannot work once we cannot power the generators. The judges, lawyers and litigants have to stay in the courtrooms, in darkened space and hot condition to carry out proceedings. “We hope media too are affected because you journalists are also part of those in the courtrooms. That is the situation we face,” another court official said