The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has denied carrying out the attacks on two police stations in Imo state. According to Emma Powerful, IPOB spokesman, on Tuesday, it is not in the group’s mandate to perpetrate such crimes. Hope Uzodinma IPOB fingered Governor Hope Uzodinma as the politician behind the recruiting and arming of unknown gunmen terrorising the South-East region. He called on security operatives to question Uzodinma about the origin of the hoodlums. The statement read, “The attack happened at Umuguma and Omuma stations in Owerri West LGA and Oru East of Imo State, contrary to lies and false allegations by the government. There is no iota of truth in the allegation intended to blackmail us and tarnish our revered global reputation. “We have said it that IPOB and ESN are not unknown gunmen and will never be. The enemies of our struggle have been looking for ways to link IPOB with criminal activities being sponsorsed by Gov. Hope Uzodinma and APC party to demonise IPOB. “IPOB/ESN operatives have no hand in the attack. We challenge our accusers to provide the evidence showing that the attack was done by IPOB or ESN security outfit? “Our mandate is not to attack police stations or individuals; our mandate is the peaceful restoration of Biafra. We are much focused on the release of our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU and to secure a date for Biafra referendum where our people can decide which country they want to belong. Senseless attacks are not part of our mandate. “We wonder why the Nigerian police derive joy in feeding the public with lies just to deceive the gullible minds. Nigeria police knew who created and formed the unknown gunmen but refused to bring them to book. Instead, every day they keep linking IPOB and ESN to what they don't know. “Nigeria police and DSS agents must question Hope Uzodinma about the origin of unknown gunmen if they want to stop the killer squad otherwise they will not achieve anything meaningful. IPOB and ESN did not attack police stations at attack Umuguma and Omuma both in Imo State. The Imo State Supreme Court Administrator, Hope Uzodinma has questions to answer.”