Rasheed Hamed also known as Rasheed Okoilu, a suspected cultist, who is on the wanted list of the Osun State Police Command, has threatened to unleash mayhem in his native Ede town if security operatives do not desist from hunting him.  Hamed was declared wanted over the killing of Hassan Adedeji, a prospective National Youth Service Corps member and Higher National Diploma Banking and Finance graduate of the Federal Polytechnic, Ede.  The deceased was gunned down alongside a yet to be identified commercial motorcyclist.  Fingers have also been pointed at Hamed for the deadly clashes with the OPC men at different times in the town, which had resulted in the death of many residents.  Rasheed in a recorded audio message from his hideout disclosed that his problem started when he decided not to join the OPC.  While calling on Ede elders to intervene in order to avert a revenge mission on his part, he alleged that the OPC members that invited him were criminals.  He said, “I am a thug and I was earning money on the street. I don’t steal. I am not a thief. I am an artisan. I am a welder. They wanted me and my boys to join them in OPC. But then, I have people I regarded as mothers and elderly ones that were OPC members. Those people told me that those that invited me to OPC were thieves, especially Doki.  “In my presence, one of those that invited me to OPC went to steal an iron rod and he killed someone at the scene about five years ago in Ede.  “Despite their antecedents, some elders in the community still indulged and continued to associate with them. I rejected the invitation to join OPC. That made them attack my base. They came in the early hours of February 2, 2020, but we dealt with them. Those that came were OPC members. Because they suffered heavy casualties, they had to join forces with a member of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad from Osun Police Command.  “The Timi of Ede ordered us not to be involved in violence again and we all abided by the order. But after all that, the OPC men still attacked me on December 4, 2021, and two of my younger brothers were killed right in front of a police station. And one other that ran into the police station was traced into the station and he was killed in the presence of the policemen.  “Few of the elders that spoke to me only pleaded but no action was taken to punish the perpetrators. I listened to the pleading and I mourned the dead. I bought gifts, made stickers campaigning for peace in Ede. I funded street light projects in our area, I distributed food items to all the mosques in our area. After all the efforts, these OPC men still attacked and killed my elder brother at Owode, Ede. Apart from the deceased named Kehinde, my younger brother was shot in the stomach and I was also shot several times and they went away with my vehicle.  “After that, Doki Wakili, Oriade and Jagunlabi killed my mother. She was killed on Tuesday, 22nd February 2022. I hereby appeal to all indigenes, Osun State Government, Federal Government to intervene. All royal fathers in Osun should also intervene.  “Some OPC men also came to Isale Osun on March 9. They carted away people’s property in five buses. No one could do anything about it. I am using this medium to tell all Ede residents that I am coming and when I return, the effect will be felt by many people. Those not involved in the crises will pay for it. Before now, people used to see me and greet me. But when I return, if you see me, you see death. I see you, you die, you see me, you die.”