The Lagos State commissioner of police, Abiodun Alabi, has directed all area commanders and Divisional Police Officers to beef up security and maintain visibility in their area of coverage. The order followed the indefinite suspension of the Lagos State Chapter Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly called MC Oluomo, over alleged misconduct, insubordination, and inciting members of the state chapter against the apex body.Sources told SaharaReporters that the decision is predicated on the crisis that usually follows a change of leadership in the transport workers’ union, particularly in South-West Nigeria."Lagos police commissioner has ordered that security should be tightened in the state because of the suspension of MC Oluomo; it is to prepare for any crisis that may follow," one of the sources, a senior police officer, said on Thursday.The union had in a letter signed by its General Secretary, Kabiru Yau, and dated March 9th, 2022 suspended MC Oluomo indefinitely. According to the letter, the union leader was suspended over alleged misconduct, insubordination, and inciting members of the state chapter against its national body. With the development, the NURTW directed MC Oluomo to hand over to his deputy chairman and release all property belonging to the union in his possession. The letter read, “This is to convey to you that in line with Article 42 section 5, subsection I, II, III, IV, V, and VIII of the union’s constitution, you have been placed on indefinite suspension from office as State Chairman of Lagos State Council of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) with effect from March 9th, 2021. “Your suspension is sequel to sustained acts of insubordination and gross misconduct coupled with your clandestine plans to instigate crisis and unleash mayhem on any branch or branches of the union in Lagos state that refuses to obey your order or instructions not to accept directives from the national headquarters of the Union. “Your orchestrated plan to attack branches that may disobey your orders aforesaid will ultimately endanger public peace and order in Lagos state. It is also very likely to threaten and/or affect the lives and property of the peace-loving people of Lagos state, particularly those doing their legitimate businesses within motor parks, hence the urgent need to take drastic actions against him. “It is on record that you were earlier issued with queries on 25th of February 2022 and 3rd of March, 2022 respectively in which you were directed to explain the circumstances surrounding your untoward actions and to also show cause why disciplinary actions should not be taken against you for such acts of insubordination. You bluntly neglected/refuse to respond to the second query, while your response to the first query was unsatisfactory. “In view of your suspension, you are hereby directed to hand over the mantle of leadership of the Lagos State Council to the State Deputy Chairman and also surrender all Union properties in your possession to the State Secretary of the Union forthwith.”