President of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, has confirmed the killing of the Secretary-General of the union, Comrade (Barr.) Musa-Lawal Ozigi and Kwara State Chairman, Comrade Akin Akinsola. Both union members were killed on Monday night during an attack by terrorists on a Kaduna-bound train.  The terrorists had attacked the train and its occupants, killing some of them. Some others were injured while an unspecified number of persons were also abducted. Olaleye said the late union members were on an official assignment. He said they were going for a programme slated for Tuesday, March 29, 2022. SaharaReporters had reported that the TUC lost two of its members in the attack. The newspaper earlier reported that the Secretary-General of the TUC, Barrister Musa-Lawal Ozigi, was among the passengers killed when terrorists bombed and derailed an Abuja-Kaduna train and abducted scores of passengers on Monday evening. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Trade Union Congress Lost Two Members, Secretary-General And Kwara Chairman, In Abuja-Kaduna Train Attack By Terrorists
0 Comments
16 Hours Ago SaharaReporters also learnt on Tuesday that the Kwara State Chairman of the TUC, Comrade Akinsola Akinwunmi, was also killed during the attack.  "We lost our SG (Secretary-general) and the Kwara State Chairman," a source in the TUC on Tuesday told SaharaReporters. "Barrister Musa-Lawal Ozigi is dead. He was among those who were attacked yesterday by bandits in Kaduna-Abuja railway." It was learnt that Ozigi served as General Secretary, Construction and Civil Engineering Senior Staff Association (CCESSA), an affiliate of TUC for almost 20 years before he joined the Congress in 2012. Akinsola was an employee of Dangote Flour Mill under OLAM. “We call on the government at all levels, especially the Federal Government to rise up to the occasion to stop the killing of innocent Nigerians. As it stands, nowhere is safe now – we can not travel by air, the road is not safe and neither is the rail. Is Nigeria a failed state? It is unfortunate.  “The Congress condoles with the families and friends of our comrades and the good people of Kogi State for this irreparable loss. May God rest their souls,” Olaleye said in the statement.