Adeyeye Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife, and Lamidi Adeyemi, the Alaafin of Oyo, have waded into the rift between the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. It was gathered that the two Yoruba traditional rulers met with Aregbesola at one of the private residences of Alaafin in Ibadan on Tuesday. Tinubu, who has declared his intention to contest for President in 2023, was, however, not present.It was learnt that the monarchs would meet with him at a later date.Tinubu and Aregbesola have been at loggerheads, with the latter accusing the former of favouring the governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, in the political crisis in the state.In the build-up to the Osun APC primary election, Aregbesola supported and campaigned for Moshood Adeoti, against Oyetola, who was the party’s choice. Aregbesola had said Tinubu was exalted “beyond his status, and he turned himself to a god over us”. “We followed and served this leader with all our might. In fact, our loyalty to him had caused some people to start wondering if we were no longer Muslims. But we were with him and served him according to the admonition of our forefathers, who said when serving anyone, we should do so with sincerity and loyalty; that if you regard anyone as your principal, you must serve him wholeheartedly,” he had said. “Sadly, we didn’t know that while we wished him well, he didn’t think good of us. However, because we placed him higher than where he ordinarily should be, he started to think he is our god. Unfortunately, for him, we had sworn to God that whoever compares himself to him, we’d beg Him to bring down such a fellow. “God says he does not have a rival, and if you heard what I said in Arabic, God said, ‘He is God and he didn’t have to start procreating before He’ll assume His place as God; that only humans procreate. You are the ones, who attach importance to procreation. As God, He doesn’t need a child to dwell in his glory. He does not need any family member or younger siblings to regale in His majesty. That He does not even need a group to be who He is. That He is God and that’s who He is. So, whoever puts himself in place of God, well, let him be his own god. “With suffering, pains and perseverance, we nurtured this party to the stage it is – with sweat, tears, blood and even lost lives. It is by God’s grace that someone like me didn’t pay the supreme price too. May those who lost their lives to the struggle find peace with the Lord. (He mentioned names of some of those who died). As tough as it was, we did not seek revenge.”