A United States-based Professor, Godwin Sadoh has accused Afolabi Oladapo, a former Head of Service of the Federation of breaching the contract he had with him when he was the acting Pro-Chancellor of Technical University, Ibadan, Oyo State.  Sadoh claimed he is being owed several months of salary.  According to the don, he was recruited from the United States under the Nigerians in Diaspora Scheme to assist in creating a music programme that would be rooted in 21st-century music technology, for the university, which was under construction at the time.  He added that Afolabi went as far as conscripting him to create the academic programme for all the departments in the College of Agricultural Sciences, from the first year to the fourth year, including the intensive summer curricula.  A source familiar with the matter also said that the former Head of Service told Sadoh that he would be paid $10,000 monthly, which was later reduced to $5,000 monthly in June 2013, before payment subsequently stopped outright.  “Prof. Godwin Sadoh’s ordeal began on Tuesday, January 8th, 2013, upon arrival in Nigeria from the United States. He met Prof. Oladapo Abraham Afolabi (OON, CFR), former Permanent Secretary of Education, former Ag. Pro-Chancellor of Technical University, Ibadan, and former Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, on Friday, 11th of January, 2013, at his residence in Abuja.  "Prof. Sadoh was recruited from the United States under the Nigerians in Diaspora Scheme to come and assist in creating a music programme that would be rooted in 21st-century music technology, for the newly emerging Technical University of Ibadan, which was under construction at the time,” the source said.  “Additionally, Prof. Afolabi went as far as to conscript Prof. Sadoh to create the academic programme for all the departments in the College of Agricultural Sciences, from the first year to the fourth year, including the intensive summer curricula. On the first day of their meeting, Prof. Afolabi explained the vision and objectives of the institution to Prof. Sadoh as well as intimated him about his duties and remuneration.  “Prof. Afolabi told Prof. Sadoh that he would be paid $10, 000 USD monthly, after which he immediately put Prof. Sadoh to work by assigning him duties. Unfortunately, Prof. Afolabi reduced the salary of Prof. Sadoh to $5,000 monthly in June 2013, as soon as National University Commission issued Prof. Sadoh the first contract as a LEADS Scholar attached to Technical University, Ibadan.  “He informed Prof. Sadoh that he would be receiving $2,500 from NUC, while the university would add $2,500 every month. He also assured Prof. Sadoh that the university under his leadership at the time, would provide him with suitable accommodation and a new car viz-a-viz the LEADS Scholar programme, and most importantly, as a foundation academic staff of the university. NUC did fulfil its obligation of the three contracts given to Prof. Sadoh by paying all his salaries for thirty months.  “Sadly, Prof. Afolabi defaulted in the payment of all the salaries, allowances, transportation/new car, and he never provided the accommodation as promised. Prof. Sadoh diligently and successfully carried out all the assignments given to him by Prof. Afolabi, and even did more by performing the duties of a professor which were research, writing, composition, international publications of five articles in reputable journals, five compositions, and four books, as well as community service.  “Below is a summation of Prof. Sadoh’s professional services rendered to Technical University, Ibadan, between January 2013 and April 2016: creation of undergraduate music technology-based academic programme, recommended degree offerings (four-year degrees, diplomas, and certificates), design of the music building.  “Design of the students’ concert hall, design of the Performing Arts Centre, composition of the university anthem with the score and CD recording, international publications of scholarly articles, compositions and books, curricula for all the departments in the College of Agricultural Sciences (27-page document), community service, and other administrative duties.  “The battle to retrieve all the outstanding salaries and allowances from Prof. Oladapo Afolabi rages on.”  Calls put across by SaharaReporters to Professor Afolabi were not answered nor returned.  A text message also sent to his line was not replied to at the time of filing this report.