More facts have emerged about the unexplained source of wealth of a Nigerian Army Captain, Sahabi Mohammed, and how he has been acquiring property in the Kaduna metropolis and other parts of Northern Nigeria.  Mohammed, who currently serves in Ilorin, Kwara State, was a few days ago accused by some landlords in the Babban Saura area of Kaduna State of issuing several threats and forcing them to sell their houses to him.  The house owners disclosed that many of them had yielded to the demands of the army captain for fear of being victimised by him considering his position and influence in the military.  In the latest findings made on the army captain by SaharaReporters on Monday, it was discovered that Mohammed owns a multi-million-naira estate in the Kubwa area of Abuja, Nigeria’s capital city.  The estate, which houses at least 20 state-of-the-art buildings, has been fully occupied since it was erected by the military officer in June 2021.  The estate is located in a very choice part of the Abuja suburb where real estate is a goldmine.  Also, findings by SaharaReporters revealed that the army captain owns another massive property in the Mondo area of Kaduna.  This is on top of a recent acquisition of two plots of land in the New Millennium City area of Kaduna for N40 million.  The military officer is said to be making further purchases of property in other prominent cities in Northern Nigeria despite his monthly salary and wealth sitting at two different edges.  Mohammed is also the owner of over 10 luxury automobiles including recent models of Lexus and Mercedes Benz brands. He also owns a power bike and other expensive ‘machines’.  “Nobody knows the source of his wealth, with which he has continued to intimidate people to acquire their houses.  “Recently, he bought the two plots of land at New Millennium City for N20 million each and has been looking for more property to purchase.  “Apart from the estate in Abuja, he owns several other houses in Kaduna and other parts of the North. Only God can tell where an army captain got that type of money to acquire all these properties,” a source said while confirming SaharaReporters’ findings.  Following the publication of the exclusive report on how Mohammed forces landlords in Kaduna to sell houses to him, SaharaReporters gathered that the army captain moved in some thugs to evacuate important items from his houses around Babban Saura area of Kaduna State over concerns that it could be invaded by security agencies.  Shortly after the report, domestic workers in some of the houses, it was gathered, had their mobile phones confiscated by the army personnel to check if they had been giving out information to SaharaReporters.  Some of the houses are currently being guarded by unknown persons, whom residents described as fierce-looking.  Also, movements of security personnel suspected of being members of the Department of State Services have been witnessed in the area since SaharaReporters story on March 17, it was gathered.  Despite the activities and unexplained wealth of the army captain being reported to various government agencies including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission since 2020, it was discovered that nothing had been done to tame the excesses of Mohammed.  “We have sent a petition to the EFCC since August 2020 and copied the Nigerian Defence Headquarters, State House, Aso Villa, Abuja, and Department at State Services Headquarters without any action taken on the matter.  “We wonder why the authorities have kept mute about the activities of Captain Mohammed and how he has been threatening every house owner close to his property in Kaduna.  “The authorities must do something fast about this issue before things get out of hand,” a leader in Babban Saura neighbourhood in Kaduna said.  Calls put across by SaharaReporters to the Director, Army Public Relations, Onyema Nwachukwu, on the issue were not answered nor returned.  A text message also sent to his mobile line had yet to be responded to as of the time of filing this report.     