Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo state says some of his colleagues whom he described as ‘yahoo yahoo’ (fraudsters) were working with Mai Mala Buni, the ousted chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee, to cause a crisis. On Monday, Abubakar Sani Bello, governor of Niger, took over as the APC caretaker committee acting chairman — replacing Buni who was appointed to the position in June 2020. Over the past weeks, there have been internal wranglings in the party over the arrangement for its national convention. Reacting to the development, Akeredolu expressed confidence in the ability and capacity of Bello to manage the party. He said he and his colleagues are for the party except for the few "Yahoo Yahoo" governors who were hand in glove with Buni to circumvent the will of the majority members of the party. He said, “With nostalgia, one can recall the moments of our struggle as compatriots from all walks of life enunciated and berthed Nigeria's most ingeniously successful political network. Without being immodest, APC's birth was a novel instance. The party’s philosophical beacon woven around its ideological leaning was alluring. “Undoubtedly, the firm leadership, candour and honesty exemplified by Mr President who heads the administration that is the product of the APC deserve no less support and complementary responsibilities from all stakeholders. “The installation of the Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the APC was beyond a call to service. It was a child of necessity moulded to one, instill discipline in leadership and engender coherence among stakeholders and more importantly, to deepen the Rule of Law in our party. “However, the insidious and appalling happenings within our party in the last few months, especially under the immediate-past leadership clearly posit a huge embarrassment. Without necessarily dwelling on details that are known to critical stakeholders, the path taken lately by Governor Mai Mala Buni, the immediate past head of the CECPC and an indivisible few, is an unenviable trajectory undeserving of our dear party. It is a disdainful narrative. “Nevertheless, the courage and determination as well as shrewd sincerity of purpose demonstrated by most of the APC Governors remain a delight. Significantly, the swift response and prompt action taken by Mr President have, in no small means, salvaged our great party from internal scavengers. We indeed survived a Civilian Coup largely inspired by mischief and incurable lust for power through artificial barricades.Succinctly, aside from feeling very delighted as a major stakeholder in the latest successful Rescue Mission, I express my confidence in the ability and capacity of Governor Sanni Bello (ABU LOLO) to take APC through. “We, the Governors are for the party except for the few "Yahoo, Yahoo" Governors (apologies to Salihu, former DG of the Progressive Governors' Forum) who were hand in glove with Buni to circumvent the Will of the majority of our Party (APC) members. Progressive Governors in the true name, mostly all of us, are determined to see our Party through these patchy parts at all cost. “None of the scanty numbers has the guts to carry out their imaginary threats as reported in sponsored stories. We dare them to leave the party. Their short-lived antics in arm-twisting Governor Buni and probably, some pocket filling elements within the corridors of power to supplant the President's will through fake letters, endorsements as well as 'Black Market' injunction (procured since November 2021) are despicable. “Now that the clear motive aimed at frustrating our national convention has been botched, our dear party is on the track to greatness. Gov. Sanni Bello, ABU LOLO, carry on; you have the backing of the majority of us. You shall see our FULL backing come Thursday, 17th March 2022 at the National Executive Committee meeting.”