The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has exonerated itself from the attack by unknown gunmen on the house of President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Worldwide, Professor George Obiozor, in Awo- Omamma in Oru East Local Government Area of Imo State. IPOB, in a statement on Monday signed by Emma Powerful, its spokesperson, described the attack on Obiozor's house as a barbaric, shameful and disgraceful act.  The group alleged that those involved in the attack are sponsored criminals who are against the struggle for the independence of Biafra and the liberation of Nnamdi Kanu. It further promised to find the culprits behind the dastardly act. The statement reads, “We the global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU, totally condemn the burning of the house of Professor George Obiozor, the President General of Ohanaeze. This barbaric act is shameful and disgraceful to Ndigbo.  “There is no gainsaying the fact that criminals behind this cowardly act are those against the liberation of Biafra and the release of our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU so as to create the wrong impression that Biafra agitators are violent. Those behind this evil act have nothing to do with IPOB, ESN or Biafra agitation. They are sponsored criminals and must be made to face the consequences of their actions. “We don't consider Professor Obiozor an enemy of IPOB and Biafra struggle. So, anybody targeting him is treading on dangerous ground. He has done nothing to deserve such devilish and wicked attack. “IPOB M.Branch unit will stop at nothing in unravelling those behind this dastardly attack. “The criminal elements being recruited by evil politicians wreaking havoc across our land should stop their murderous activities or brace up for IPOB. “Wicked politicians must be held responsible for the ongoing destruction of Igbo land. “IPOB is ready to confront these criminals created by politicians in the name of Ebubeagu security outfit which they intended to use to replace ESN. “Ebubeagu security outfit has turned to unknown gunmen terrorising our people. They are involved in kidnappings and burning of people's properties and houses in Imo state and other states. “ESN operatives need the cooperation of the public to deal with the Ebubeagu security outfit because they have been a thorn in the flesh of our people and must be stopped. “Civilians taking soldiers and DSS to burn people's properties or houses must also stop or blame yourself for whatever that may befall you.”