The General Overseer of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries International, Dr. Daniel Olukoya, has asked the family of a Regional Pastor, Dan Osato Osamwonyi, abducted 10 months ago to keep praying instead of wasting money on the case. The family alleged that the MFM GO had ignored the family, stressing that up till the moment, no single word or trace of pastor Daniel Osamwonyi had been seen and no call placed for a ransom. Pastor Daniel Olukoya, General Overseer of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM). SaharaReporters had on Monday reported that Pastor Dan Osato Osamwonyi, the Regional Overseer Mountain Of Fire And Miracles Ministries (MFM), Midwest Region 66, Benin City, who was abducted on May 25, 2021, is still missing 10 months after, giving the family a lot of concern. Osamwonyi was abducted on May 25, 2021, on his way to attend to a private issue. He was intercepted by some gunmen, who whisked him away from his Nissan SUV, into a getaway car and he has since remained incommunicado. The Edo State Police Command that claimed to be on the trail of the abducted cleric, has not made any headway either, though, a suspect believed to be connected to the crime was arrested. However, a family member told SaharaReporters that the GO was informed about the incident but he called only once. SaharaReporters also obtained the audio of the conversation between Olukoya and the family on the incident. The source affirmed that Olukoya asked them to go to God in prayers instead of wasting money during the only conversation that the family was able to have with him. The family hinted that the suspect, one “Robert Ukpong” is also a member of MFM. They queried whether the G.O had bothered to have a one-on-one conversation with him to know why his name appeared on the text message from Pastor Daniel the day he (Daniel) was kidnapped. The source said, “Dr D.K Olukoya was duly informed about the incident but he only called once. Calling him; he never picks up; as for texts and emails, he never responds. What was expected of the G.O was to be actively involved and go to any lengths to make sure his Regional Overseer pastor was found. But so far, no sign of that; the only time the family was able to reach the G.O on phone and even begged him to use his influence; he said, “Instead of wasting money, the best is to go to God in prayers.” “This is really sad and painful because pastor Daniel Osamwonyi has done nothing but served MFM selflessly for the past 22 years, built churches in Expoma, Abuja and Benin and also bought a Prayer City for MFM in Benin City. Despite all the hate that has been thrown at him (I don’t even want to go into the tribalism and nepotism) he continues to serve because he actually loves God and enjoys working wholeheartedly for him.” "The police and DSS keep lying that they can’t track or trace pastor Daniel Osamwonyi’s phone even after four months of his kidnap; but the children and some of the family members got a WhatsApp notification that Pastor Daniel left their WhatsApp group chat, but then DSS and police kept saying they can’t track his phone because there’s no network as the phone was turned off. "The suspect ‘Robert Ukpong’ is also a member of MFM, has the G.O bothered having a one on one conversation with him to know why his name appeared on the text message from Pastor Daniel the day he was kidnapped? "This is why we the family are crying out loud for the public to help us ask MFM to rise for Pastor Daniel Osamwonyi, the MFM Regional Overseer," the source added.