Human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore has insisted that those in government are responsible for the death of his brother, Olajide. Olajide was killed in the Okada area of Edo State in September 2021. Omoyele Sowore
SaharaReporters Media He was killed on his way from the Igbinedion University where he was studying Pharmacy. Sowore, in an interview with Chude Jideonwo recently, said the Nigerian government was responsible for the death of his brother, adding that the investigation started by the police into the case had yet to be concluded. According to him, the police have instead blamed Olajide for his death, saying the deceased refused to stop his vehicle when he was waylaid by the assailants.  Sowore noted, “Who is responsible for my brother's death except those who are in government? If anyone has an interest in killing me, it's in this government. If anyone killed my brother without any explanation, my first suspicion or accusation legitimately will be to the government. “Till date, they haven't called my family back regarding the investigation. Even when we were trying to do the autopsy, they were making it very hard to find out how he was killed. “One night, the police sent me a picture of people who were arrested stating that they will be paraded. That's like a month after my brother was killed. Till date, nothing has been heard of that investigation, not even a pronouncement was given by the police except to blame my brother for his murder. “They blamed him for his death, they blamed him for not stopping when the assailants stopped him. That was the position of the Police Commissioner in Edo State and his spokesperson.” Sowore has been critical of the Muhammadu Buhari administration, describing it as inept and dictatorial. The activist has also been arrested several times by the Buhari government, the latest arrest coming last Thursday as he was leaving the Court of Appeal in Abuja. He was detained at a unit of the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in Abuja popularly called ‘abattoir’ for allegedly publishing news defaming the character of a businessman and former lawmaker, Ned Nwoko.