Eleven persons have been confirmed killed and eight others permanently incapacitated among several victims of police brutality in Taraba State, according to the report from its EndSARS panel. An inquiry into police brutality followed nationwide protest by angry Nigerians in October 2020; who demanded the immediate disbandment of a notorious police unit, known as Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). #EndSARS Protesters In Taraba State, a total of 34 petitions were received by the investigative panel, out of which 28 were treated successfully. According to the report obtained by SaharaReporters, “11 victims of police brutality are death and each one is awarded N20million naira. Eight victims are permanently incapacitated and are awarded N15million each. "While the rest are victims of torture/extortion/illegal detention/loss of means of livelihood, they were awarded various sums ranging from N3million to N10million depending on the gravity of the brutality", the report read in parts. Three of the petitioners, Ali Danladi, Shonboro Samuel and Abraham Isa, were tortured and inflicted with varied degrees of wounds. Unfortunately it was on mistaken identity that Danladi was tortured and had his wrist broken by the disbanded SARS operatives. "Ali Danladi brought a petition against the defunct SARS for brutality by one of its officers and the petition succeeded, he was awarded the sum of N10,000,000 as compensation. "Shonboro Samuel also brought a petition against the SARS and was awarded N7million. "Abraham Isa was tortured by police with the aid of a civilian, Habibu Jibrin who filed a complaint before the police in Bissaula, Kurmi Local Government Areae, he was awarded N10million", the report reads in parts. However, despite being in its final stages, the report has yet to be submitted to the state government for implementation. According to some members of the panel, the Taraba State governor, Darius Ishaku, has deliberately blocked the submission of the report. They further alleged that the governor had starved the panel of the needed funds to conclude its assignment. A member of the panel who does not want his name mentioned has alleged that they were paid only one month sitting allowances since it started in November 2020.