Oyo State Government will close some major roads and all markets in Ibadan from midnight on Friday to honour Senator Lekan Balogun ahead of his installation as the new Olubadan of Ibadan.  Balogun will become the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadan on Friday (today).  According to a travel advisory issued by Oyo State Road Traffic Management Agency on Thursday, four major roads will be closed to traffic to prevent gridlock because of the visitors expected to attend the event.  The message read, “This is to inform the general public of traffic diversions at the under-listed routes leading to the ancient Mapo Hall, Ibadan occasioned by the official installation of the 42nd paramount ruler and king of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, on Friday, March 11, 2022.  “The routes which shall be shut by 12am of Thursday, March and reopened 12pm on Saturday, March 12, 2022, include: Beere Junction inward Mapo Hall; Born Photo Junction inward Oja’ba; Idi-Arere Junction inward Oja’ba and Itamerin Junction inward Mapo Hall.  “While OYRTMA men and officers, in conjunction with other sister security agencies have been adequately mobilised to direct the flow of traffic and ensure the safety of road users, the authority has however provided alternative routes to vehicles intending to ply the barricaded regions.”  Similarly, the Babaloja General of Oyo State, Alhaji Yekini Oladapo, in a statement said all markets in Ibadan would be shut in honour of the new Olubadan.  It read, “The Babaloja General of Oyo State, Alhaji Yekini Oladapo, after arising from a meeting on Wednesday, stated that all markets in Ibadan metropolis will be closed on Friday, March 11, 2022, in honour of the coronation of the new Olubadan of Ibadanland Oba Lekan Balogun Ali-Okunmade II.  “Market leaders in all the markets should open the markets for business by the end of Jumat service when all major activities would have ended.”  Seventy-nine-year-old Balogun is from Ali Iwo Family. He is formerly the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland.  Following the death of Oba Saliu Adetunji on January 2, 2022, Balogun became the Olubadan-designate in line with the succession plan of the Olubadan monarchy.