Several women stormed the Government House in Owerri, Imo State, to demand an end to all kinds of rites and customs affecting the growth of the girl child. Wielding placards with different inscriptions, the women faulted the recent rejection of gender bills by the National Assembly. They also called on the Nigerian Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities to resolve their differences so that university students can return to their schools.The women marched from the control post junction to the government entrance gate during the peaceful protest led by the President of Women Unite to Live Initiative, Nigeria, Chika Nwachukwu. Nwachukwu urged the Imo government to deepen democracy by building basic amenities to end the plights of rural women in the state. According to her, Nigerian women have the capacity to compete favourably with their counterparts if equal opportunities were provided. The woman activist stated, “Use the 2022 International Women's Day with the theme #BreakingTheBias to ponder on the place of a typical African Woman. “There is this clarion call for all nations to rise against all forms of unfairness which inhibit women from utilizing their potential for self-realization, socio-political and economic advancement and general well-being at the various communities, workplaces, schools, colleges and universities. “However, #BreakingTheBias begins with us women as we need to look inward and motivate one another to make a good society. In the words of the great Napoleon, 'Give me good mothers and I will give you a good nation'. “We must agree and work together, just as the bible in Ecclesiastes 4:9, that 'Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour'. Iron sharpeneth iron, it is said, hence, we can begin by helping ourselves with our skills.”  She continued, “A typical African woman performs the role of wife, partner, organizer, administrator, director, re-creator, disburser, economist, mother, disciplinarian, teacher, health officer, artist and queen in the family at the same time. “Why have our mothers abandoned their parental duties to teachers who have limited time with them, all in the name of boarding? Such situations have become very worrisome, especially in this internet age where students are now modelled by what they watch on their phones during off-school hours in their respective hostels. “Thus, the high rate of morale decadence among young girls who now engage and even spearhead crimes that were hitherto regarded as male-related offences such as cultism, prostitution, kidnapping, armed robbery, and ritual killings. “Our young girls in Tertiary Institutions continue to be the worst hit in the incessant strike of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). Many of these young girls waste their years of marriage and other useful life endeavours as undergraduates due to prolonged strikes. We all know that men can marry at any age but not women. Where do we go from here? “While we commend Government for the signing of the Electoral Bill into Law, full implementation of the bill should be strictly observed to guarantee credibility in our electoral processes. “We once again unequivocally condemn money-politics as we pray and march into a glorious nation. We cannot continue to watch our generations embrace hardship as way of life, while their contemporaries in developed nations are advancing in all aspects of life endeavour.” Addressing the protesters, the deputy governor of the state, Placid Njoku, assured the state government would look into their demands with the intention to solving the ones that are within the purview of the state government.