A physically challenged woman, Ruth Matthew, whose two-year-old child went missing in Christ MercyLand Deliverance Ministries (CMDM) has not regained her freedom from detention, SaharaReporters learnt on Tuesday.The founder and senior Prophet of the church, Jeremiah Fufeyin had been accused of using the police to arrest and detain the physically challenged woman for complaining about her missing son. SaharaReporters on Sunday reported that the pastor ordered the police to arrest Ruth, leaving her other children stranded.SaharaReporters gathered that Ruth was arrested for demanding justice over the disappearance of his son in Fufeyin’s church some years ago. The woman was on Saturday moved by the police to Benin, Edo State and has been in detention since then.Isaac Obasi, human rights advocate and founder of Obasi Foundation for Justice on Tuesday posted a video showing how Ruth, came down from an aircraft in Benin City, Edo State and whisked away in a wheelchair.His post reads, “Three years ago, a physically challenged woman named Ruth Matthew went to the church of popular Warri-based prophet, Jeremiah Omoto Fufeyin with her four children (all boys). “She said when Jeremiah saw her, he asked if he was the mother of all these boys and she answered him yes, then from there at their ‘mercy land’ shrine, the youngest of her son who was then 2-years-old disappeared mysteriously. She began to look for him but couldn't find him. “Jeremiah’s security couldn't explain where the missing child was and they have refused to show the CCTV footage of what transpired. Ruth began to cry out for her son but the pulpit robber Jeremiah and his members began to attack her, telling her to stop asking about the child. “Ruth refused and kept raising her voice to make sure she gets back her son. A South African-based preacher who has been exposing occultic and rogue African false prophets, especially in Nigeria got in contact with her and began to help her out to see that justice is done and she gets back her child. “Jeremiah and his gullible followers didn't like that, so they began threatening her and also promising her millions and cars for her to stop talking about her missing son but as usual she refused and on Saturday the highly corrupt and criminal Nigerian police on the orders of the fraudster Preacher Jeremiah came to abduct Ruth and took her to Benin. “As God will have it, a fearless and fiery woman of God, Bisola Hephzi-bah Johnson had flown into Abuja from Lagos to stand by Ruth and make sure she gets justice. She looked for her in Abuja police stations but couldn't find her she was told Ruth had been taken to Benin and she decided to fly down to Benin and by fate, the aircraft she boarded was the one used to kidnap Ruth too and she made this video. “I don't know how we got to this cursed state where false prophets like Jeremiah and his cohorts have been terrorising those speaking up and exposing their shenanigans and criminalities.”In the video, Bisola in her narration, said she enquired about Ruth in Abuja and told that she had been brought to Benin City.As the woman identified as Ruth was getting down from the plane, Bisola could heard saying, “Ruth, is that you? We are here for you; we are here live on Facebook. They kidnapped this lady in Abuja, we will give you Tsunami if that is what you want. Whatever they say you have done, that is the man who picked her up.“Don’t worry, we will follow you. They kidnapped her in Abuja and now I don’t know where they are taking her to.” She accused the pastor of kidnapping Ruth.”“She took her children to Jeremiah’s church and one disappeared. And now they are taking her to Jeremiah; they kidnapped her,” she said.When SaharaReporters called one of the church’s official numbers, a man who answered asked our reporter to call back. However, when SaharaReporters called the line again, it was not reachable. Our correspondent repeatedly called another phone line registered to the church but the calls were not answered. https://mobile.facebook.com/isaac.obasi.589/posts/pcb.501416581440688/?photo_id=358150416365612&mds=%2Fphotos%2Fviewer%2F%3Fphotoset_token%3Dpcb.501416581440688%26photo%3D358150416365612%26profileid%3D781308742%26source%3D48%26refid%3D52%26__tn__%3DEH-R%26cached_data%3Dfalse%26ftid%3D&mdp=1&mdf=1