Muhammad Amin Mahmood, an aspirant in the just-concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Northwest Zonal Youth Leadership, was shot during the attack on Monday. SaharaReporters learnt the politician was on board the train and was one of those shot during the train ride which was heading to Kaduna from Abuja. However, as of the time of filing this report, it was not clear how critical his injuries were or if he would survive. SaharaReporters had reported that two cleaners and workers of the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train identified as Loretta and Abdul were confirmed dead. It was learnt that some security personnel and passengers were also confirmed dead but their names have yet to be released. A lot of passengers were also injured or abducted, it was gathered. "Meanwhile, two dead bodies have been deposited at St. Gerald’s Catholic Hospital in Kaduna while some persons are being treated for gunshot injuries," a source had told SaharaReporters. SaharaReporters earlier reported that the terrorists who attacked the Nigerian Railway Corporation train from Abuja to Kaduna on Monday evening had abducted some of the stranded passengers.SaharaReporters had obtained victims’ accounts which confirmed that some other persons were shot dead by the rampaging terrorists who operated for hours due to the absence of the Nigerian military and other security agencies.“Some people have died, and the bandits kidnapped several persons,” a woman on the train confirmed to SaharaReporters.“The army hasn’t been able to secure the area but people are running towards them in a staging area,” another source added.In a Facebook post, another passenger, Anas Danmusa, said, “Please this is an emergency. We are inside the train at the moment. Kidnappers planted explosives and the train engines have been ruined. We are helpless. Abuja to Kaduna train; gunshots still being fired around us. We are just under the seats praying to God while waiting for help. Since 8pm we have been here/ between Katari to Rijana; I am a living witness.”He later added, “We are safe now.”SaharaReporters earlier reported that the NRC could not yet reach its driver nor its engineers onboard the ill-fated train, adding to the anxiety of the already distressed passengers.“The management of the Nigeria Railway Corporation claims they haven’t been able to speak with the train engineers and the driver. The train was travelling to Kaduna and was already 45 minutes from Rigasa Police Station.“Even though the Nigeria Army states they’ve arrived and secured the trains and passengers, the management still hasn’t been able to touch base with the crew. They are not sure if the military secured it or not.“They are on standby to send another coach from Abuja. The train tracks were bombed and the train was derailed. The terrorists derailed the whole train,” one of the sources explained.SaharaReporters also reported that the attack was still ongoing as of 9.42pm press time, while security agencies had yet to deploy to the scene.One of the passengers who confirmed the incident in a telephone call said the attackers had surrounded the train and were shooting sporadically.“All the passengers are currently lying on the floor of the train. The bandits are shooting sporadically. We are in serious danger,” said one of the panic-stricken passengers.There are at least 970 passengers on board the train, according to official sources familiar with the train service.