The Lagos State Taxi Drivers and Cab Operators Association has implored the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to assist them with discount to be able to purchase the N9milllion state-owned cabs which his administration brought in weeks ago to phase out the conventional cabs.  The Lagos State Government brought in 1000 new vehicles for taxis with each worth N9million and in mid-February did a road show with the new vehicles from Ajah to the Third Mainland Bridge areas of the state.  But speaking with SaharaReporters, the taxi drivers’ association said the state government must not push its members into unemployment, while calling on the Sanwo-Olu to give them a 50 per cent discount or five per cent equity on the vehicles.  The LSTDCOA Secretary, Taiwo Omolekan, told SaharaReporters that its over 12,000 members were ready to embrace the new Lagos Taxi E-haling ride but the state government should assist its financially handicapped members on the equity contribution.  He said, “Yellow taxis are the pride of Lagos and we are the heritage of Lagos, they should not scrap us. The government should give us a 50 per cent discount on the new cab. We are not asking for too much. The Borno State Government did a similar thing by giving a 50 per cent discount on new taxis brought in. Lagos can do better; Lagos is big and buoyant.  “On the equity contribution, we should contribute five per cent instead of 10 per cent. We have a membership strength of 12,000 members. So, the 1000 new taxis which the state government brought in are not even enough to go round our members, but we don’t have that money. We cannot afford N9milion. We don’t have the financial muscle.  “So, this is what we are pleading for from the state government; either 50 per cent discount or five percent equity. The new taxis have not started operation, they only did a road show; from Ajah to the Third Mainland Bridge. The state government is still insisting on 10 percent for taxi drivers.”  Earlier in a statement signed by its President, Omolekan Taiwo, LSTDCOA had appealed to the governor and his cabinet to come to its rescue because most of its members’ vehicles were old and needed replacement.  “Former governor of Lagos State, Mr Raji Fashola, did it for the association before and we did not disappoint him through Union Bank and First Bank to the tune of N1billion, we, therefore, call on the present government to come to our aid also.  “Our yellow taxis are reliable and security conscious. We have our association sticker on our bonafide members’ windscreen and they have their I.D cards with them which is traceable in the database of the association.  “Yellow taxis are targets of vehicle inspection officials, LASTMA, Lagos State Task Force officials and other law enforcement agencies, even though yellow taxis obtain nine particulars; body tag and drivers badge, vehicle document i.e vehicle license, hackney permit, roadworthiness, insurance, driving license and LASDRI. Yet they are the targets of law enforcement agents.”  Despite the problems, he said the association has been able to have its own e-hailing apps called ‘Baba Dey Online’ by Univasa which can be accessed on the Google Playstore on the Internet.  He said it should be noted rather that most yellow taxi drivers are not criminals, but honest members of the society, who are legitimately out to do their business in accordance with stipulated laws and regulations.