A young medical doctor, Megafu Chinelo, who was killed on Monday in the Abuja-Kaduna train attack was meant to travel out of the country on Friday, one of her friends has said. SaharaReporters had reported how bandits attacked the train which was on its way to Kaduna from Abuja on Monday night.  The gunmen were said to have blown up the rail track after which they launched an attack on the passengers. The dentist was one of the over 970 passengers on board when the terrorists attacked the train. Shortly after the attack, Chinelo took to her Twitter page at 9:43 pm asking Nigerians to pray for her. “I’m in the train. I have been shot please pray for me,” she had tweeted. Taking to Twitter on Tuesday, a friend of the deceased said, “Dr Chinelo was making an honest living, she was working at St Gerald's hospital in Kaduna, she wanted more for herself and processed her papers to leave this hell-hole. “She resigned last month to leave the country this Friday then this happened. Nigeria why???” Speaking to SaharaReporters, another friend of the deceased said, “Yes, it’s true, though I don’t know when she was meant to leave. May her soul Rest In Peace.” The Nigeria Railway Corporation, NRC, has suspended its Abuja-Kaduna train service after terrorists blew off its train on Monday night, killing and injuring some passengers in the process. The NRC made the announcement in a terse statement on its Twitter page. In the ill-fated train, many are feared kidnapped and two confirmed dead, while others sustained injuries during the attack. The NRC wrote on Tuesday, “Dear passengers, due to unforeseen circumstances, train operations along the Abuja-Kaduna route has been temporarily suspended. “Further communication would be given in due course.” SaharaReporters earlier reported that a former Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Malam Ibrahim Wakkala, was among the Abuja-Kaduna train passengers who was shot by terrorists on Monday evening. SaharaReporters learnt that Wakkala was shot on the leg and currently hospitalised. Sources also confirmed to SaharaReporters that out of 15 patients brought to St. Gerald's Catholic Hospital in Kaduna, two had been confirmed dead, including a lady medical doctor with the hospital. “A former Deputy Governor of Zamfara Malam Ibrahim Wakkala was equally shot on the leg. Out of 15 patients brought to St. Gerald's Catholic Hospital, two are dead including a lady medical Doctor with St Gerald. “Two females moved to 44 Reference Hospital because of bullet wounds; they could not be treated at St Gerald's,” the source said. SaharaReporters on Monday night also reported that Muhammad Amin Mahmood, an aspirant in the just-concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Northwest Zonal Youth Leadership, was shot during the attack on Monday. SaharaReporters learnt the politician was on board the train and was one of those shot during the train ride which was heading to Kaduna from Abuja. However, as of the time of filing this report, it was not clear how critical his injuries were or if he would survive. SaharaReporters had reported that two cleaners and workers of the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train identified as Loretta and Abdul were confirmed dead. There are at least 970 passengers on board the train, according to official sources familiar with the train service.