The Lagos State Council Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Oluomo and all members of the union have withdrawn their membership from the national body. This comes after the indefinite suspension of MC Oluomo over alleged misconduct, insubordination, and inciting members of the state chapter against the apex body. But after an emergency meeting at the state secretariat at Agege, MC Oluomo lamented the futile attempts made by the state chapter of the union to resolve the crisis with the national body. He said, “Being law-abiding and responsible citizens, we have decided to explore all avenues for peace in the interest of all, we will not support any action that can threaten the peace that we cherish so much in Lagos State. “Therefore, I, Comrade Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya, on behalf of the State Administrative Council (SAC), State Executive Council (SEC) members and the entire union rank and file members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos State Council with over 200 Branches and Zones hereby resolve to immediately withdraw our membership and operation from the National body of NURTW for peace to reign in Lagos State and to write the Lagos State Governor, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation (MOT) and other relevant agencies about our decision.” MC Oluomo urged the state government to take over the running of the affairs of the union pending the determination of the matter in the interest of peace. According to him, the action is backed by Section 40 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, saying, “Every person shall be entitled to assembly freely and associate with other persons, and in particular, he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his or her interests.” “This means that every person shall be entitled to join an association and exit freely without molestation,” he added.  “In view of this and the crisis at hand, Lagos State Government is hereby invited to consider its white paper on Transport Union activities, 2004 section 5C, which states that the government should take over the management of any garage or motor park where there is a crisis until such is resolved by the consultative committee.”  The national body of the union had in a letter signed by its General Secretary, Kabiru Yau, and dated March 9th, 2022 suspended MC Oluomo indefinitely.    