The Federal High Court in Abuja has fixed March 16 for the hearing of a case of defamation brought against human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, by a former lawmaker, Ned Nwoko, who has consistently used Nigerian police to harass the activist, his lawyer, Marshal Abubakar and his supporters. The police sent out the court notice on Wednesday, asking Sowore to report early on that day at the old Special Anti-Robbery Squad Office in Guzape, Abuja – the police facility notoriously known as Abattoir.  “Good morning sir, this is to inform you that the case btw Dr Ned Nwoko and Comrade Omoyele Sowore will be coming up on 16/03/2022 at Federal High Court 8 Abuja. You are expected to be at Abattoir, old SARS Office Abuja by 0830 hours. Thank you,” the police notice read. The police had on Friday, March 4 arrested Sowore’s lawyer, Abubakar Marshal in his home on a trumped-up allegation that he stood as surety for the activist and the activist had jumped bail. Abubakar was hurriedly arraigned before an Area Court in Kabusa before a judge who was hired by Ned Nwoko to do the hatchet job. He was remanded at Kuje prison before he was moved to Keffi prison. SaharaReporters on Tuesday reported that an Upper Area Court sitting in Kabusa at the Federal High Court, Abuja, granted Marshal bail. Marshal secured his freedom at 11:30 am on Tuesday shortly after the release warrant was perfected by the court officials. He was released to Sowore who was also in the court to witness the proceedings. Sowore had stormed the Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Bureau (CIID) office of the FCT Police Command twice during the week to prove to the police that he did not jump bail as alleged. On Monday, Sowore visited the police facility to obtain the charges which they claimed were filed against him by Nwoko. He was however attacked and assaulted by armed policemen stationed at the gate who arrested him. The activist was also at the facility on Tuesday over the illegal detention of Marshal after the police had claimed that he had jumped bail.