Abubakar Marshal of the Falana & Falana Chambers who was recently arrested and remanded in custody has alleged that a former lawmaker, Ned Nwoko bribed the police to carry out the arrest.A Grade 1 Area Court sitting in Kabusa in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja last Friday, March 4 ordered the remand of Marshal, a lawyer representing human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, in Kuje Correctional Centre till Tuesday, March 8. Marshal was accused of filing a lawsuit on behalf of Sowore and allegedly failing to produce at the police station the activist, who was illegally arrested on the trumped-up allegation of defaming a former Member of the House of Representatives, Nwoko.SaharaReporters gathered that Marshal was traced to his home and arrested by security operatives for defending the activist.The officers accused the lawyer of embarrassing the Nigerian government, police authorities and Nwoko over his action.On Sunday when a lawyer, Pelumi Olajengbesi paid a visit to Marshal, he revealed that while he was being transferred to Keffi prison, he was told that Nwoko had paid the police hierarchy to detain him and Sowore.Sources also told SaharaReporters that the judge who ruled that he be remanded was ferried from Kuje in a vehicle with a covered licence plate, arranged by the billionaire through one of his Personal Assistants, Attah Bright Sunday. It was also gathered that Nwoko had sent Attah Bright Sunday to ensure his wish was carried out regarding how the proceedings should go, which was to ensure the judge did not grant bail to the lawyer. A source said, “A team led by Pelumi Olajegbensi visited Marshal Abubakar today and he’s in high spirit. He also said that while he was being transferred to Keffi prison, they told him Ned Nwoko had paid the police hierarchy to detain him (the lawyer) and Sowore because he (Nwoko) already paid for it.”According to another source, “the Grade 1 area court judge that detained him was ferried by Ned Nwoko from Kuje.“And to be sure this will be carried out, Ned sent one of his PA’s, Attah Bright Sunday to keep tabs on the judge to ensure he didn’t grant Marshal bail.“Attah was seen in court bribing court officials before arranging for the judge to leave in a black Mercedes Benz with the police prosecutor.“The licence plate of the SUV was covered to avoid detection.” Meanwhile, SaharaReporters also learnt from sources that the businessman, Nwoko, with the help of some of his allies, established a fake group called Niger Delta Peace Agitators when he could not achieve his goal of jailing Sowore.The group has threatened to stage a protest in Abuja if Sowore is not arrested.It accused Sowore of planning to eliminate Nwoko, saying it would resist any attempt to kill the businessman.The group, through its spokesperson, Mr. Kenule Nwiya Jr, also gave the Nigeria police 48 hours to arrest Sowore or it would mobilise its members for the protest.However, checks by SaharaReporters show Attah has been posting Sowore’s page, harassing him about his case with Nwoko. He also posted a report about the Niger Delta Peace Agitators’ threat to the police over Sowore.He has also been posting reports celebrating Nwoko on his Facebook page, however; he denied having any relationship with the former lawmaker when SaharaReporters reached out to him.“I was in court, yes, but I was there with my reporter. I’m the CEO of Virgin Media Consultancy, so I’m a media person. I heard about the case like any other person and I was in court to cover it.“The story I read was not different from the one everyone knows; that the reporter got Sowore out on bail and promised to return him the next day, February 25. When he didn’t return him, the police tried to get him to bring him to the station. The police said they tracked his number for four days.“I don’t know any court official there and I did not give anybody even N1, as I was only there with my ATM card. Those who said they saw me with the judge, it must have happened in their imagination,” he said.When asked why the number plate of his vehicle was covered, Attah declined to answer the question, saying it was none of SaharaReporters' business.“Are you a police officer? What is your business with my number plate? Don’t go beyond your brief as a journalist, you’re not a police officer.“It’s unfortunate that when you use a good car, people will say you are working for one big man. I’ve only met Ned Nwoko once and it was at an event in Lagos, and I didn’t even sit with him,” he said.Reacting to posting about Nwoko and Niger Delta Peace Agitators online, Attah, who also denied having any links with the group, said, “I’m a media consultant, am I not free to share stories again? I saw the group’s statement and I shared it, I have no connection with them. I also share things about Ned Nwoko. Have I not shared SaharaReporters’ stories before?”