A report by Economic Confidential has revealed how the Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, awarded a road contract in 2019 to a non-existent construction company. According to the report, a total of N110million was approved for the construction of the Ado Bayero Road, which is currently in a state of disrepair. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State The Ado Bayero Road Network project at Dorayi Babba in the Gwale local government area of the state was first awarded in 2019 by the State Executive Council chaired by Governor Ganduje and a total sum of N110million had been approved for it across the 2019, 2020 and 2021 budgets. Based on the measurement of a certified surveyor and testimonies by residents of the community, the abandoned project is just a 1-kilometre road. Meanwhile, the construction company to which the contract is awarded, STONEGATE QUARIES LIMITED is “unlicensed, unregistered and untraceable.” Efforts to get details of the company from the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), showed that it did not have a legal presence as it was not registered. Also, keyword search of the company's name and status on popular search engine, Google brought no results. However, an official status report generated on 31st of March, 2022 from the CAC revealed the existence of another construction company similar to the one in question, but with different names and addresses. The construction company to which the Kano State Government awarded the road contract to is “STONEGATE QUARIES LTD” situated at 1011 Domkat Bali LN. Mabushi District, Abuja while the company found on the CAC website with a similar but different detail is an inactive company named “STONEGATE ENGINEERING AND QUARIES LTD” situated at No. 5, Gana Street, Maitama, Abuja, FCT. In spite of the approval of N110million since 2019, community residents have spent more than N14million on the repair of the road to ease their movements. It was learnt that the area had potholes, sinkholes, uneven surfaces and the shredded condition of the road as well as the lack of a drainage system. Residents also complained that the road has been in that condition for the past 14 years.