A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Lawan in Adamawa State has condemned President Muhammadu Buhari's request for an additional N3.557 trillion for fuel subsidy. Lawan, who lost the contest of the APC party's National Organising Secretary during the last convention, argued that the current N250 pump price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), also known as petrol, renders the President’s request ridiculously unacceptable.  His condemnation comes ahead of Thursday's Senate approval of additional N3.557 trillion fuel subsidy money as requested by President Muhammadu Buhari. On Wednesday, SaharaReporters reported that the Senate will Thursday (today), pass the revised 2022 fiscal framework before adjourning on the Easter break. The hint was given by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, after the report of the Committee on Finance was stepped down today for consideration, a statement on Wednesday signed by Dr. Ezrel Tabiowo, Special Assistant (Press) to the Senate President, said.  Among other requests, President Muhammadu Buhari had asked the chamber to approve an increase in the estimated provision for 2022 subsidy for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), also called petrol, by N3.557 trillion, from N442.72 billion to N4 trillion.The request was contained in a letter dated April 5, 2022. "My personal observation is that it's better for the federal government to remove fuel subsidy and use the money to improve power supply in Nigeria. "If, with subsidy, people will still buy fuel in filling station at the rate of N250 per litre and also collect subsidy from federal government by marketers; that's double profits and does not make sense. "Federal government should take over power stations from the private sector to give us light because we are paying bills every month without commensurate value. "Giving electricity to the public is like automatically creating job opportunities to our youths in Nigeria. More so that the youths are now manufacturing electric cars and other devices in Nigeria," Lawan told SaharaReporters.