A Chief Magistrates’ Court in Kano has ordered that 107-year-old witch doctor, Sayyada Furera Abubakar and 17-year-old Isah Hassan should be remanded in prison for allegedly plucking out the eye of a 12-year-old boy.SaharaReporters had reported how Isah Hassan was arrested for allegedly removing an eye of Mustapha Yunusa in Dan Tsinke, Tarauni Local Government Area of Kano State. Isah, popularly known as Shahidai allegedly removed Mustapha’s eye to produce a charm that would give him the power to disappear.He was apprehended by vigilantes while trying to remove the eye of another victim.Following his arrest, Isah accused 107-year-old witch doctor, Sayyada Furera Abubakar of asking him to bring an eye for the charm.However, Sayyada denied the allegation at the time, saying she only wanted to assist Isha (Shahidai) to produce traditional medicine. “I am just a traditional herbalist. He’s lying. I have more than 50 grandchildren and I did not remove theirs. Why should I do that?” she had asked.On Wednesday, the prosecution counsel, Mr Lamido Soron-Dinki, told the court that the defendants committed the offence on March 19.Soron-Dinki said Isah was ordered by Sayyada to bring a human eye to be used for the charm.According to him, Isah and Sayyada conspired and lured their 12-year-old victim to a stream where one of his eyes was plucked out with a knife. “As a result, the victim sustained grievous hurt and was rushed to Murtala Muhammad Specialist Hospital, where he was admitted for treatment.” The plea of the defendants was, however, not taken.The Chief Magistrate, Mr Muhammad Jibril, ordered that the defendants should be remanded in a correctional centre and adjourned the matter until April 11, for further mention. Meanwhile, Dahiru Ahmad, the distraught father of the victim, had said, “I received a call that my son is at the Murtala Hospital. “Upon arrival, I was told that some bad eggs ambushed, attacked and removed his eye. “We thank God, with the aid of the police and the medical personnel, they have tried their best and the boy has recovered now surviving with one eye. “Yesterday, around 1 am, I received a call that the boy who removed my son’s eye has been arrested and he has confessed that he committed the offence.”