Members of the Sri Lanka cabinet have all resigned following nationwide protests over the government's handling of the worst economic crisis in decades.  According to a report by the BBC, all 26 ministers submitted letters of resignation including the Prime Minister's son, Namal Rajapaksa.  However, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and his brother, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa refused to Resign, attracting the outrage of crisis protesters.  Many protesters who allege that the president and his family are to blame for the situation in the country are angry at the fact that he will remain in power.  Widespread public protests were seen throughout Sunday evening despite the imposition of curfew due to end on Monday morning (this morning).  The enraged public has been demanding the resignation of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa over the failure of his government to resolve what is said to be the country's worst economic crisis since independence from the UK in 1948.  It is caused in part by a lack of foreign currency, which is used to pay for fuel imports. With power cuts lasting half a day or more, and shortages of food, medicines and fuel, public anger has reached a new high.  Education Minister Dinesh Gunawardena told reporters on Sunday that the cabinet's ministers had tendered their resignation letters to the prime minister.  On Sunday, thousands of people across the country defied a curfew order and a special notification banning anyone from being on any public road, in a park, on trains or on the seashore unless they have written permission from the authorities.  The curfew, along with a ban on social media sites including Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter, was meant to halt a planned day of protests, after a demonstration outside the president's house on Thursday night turned violent.  The demonstrations mark a massive turnaround in popularity for Rajapaksa who swept into power with a majority win in 2019, promising stability and a "strong hand" to rule the country.  Meanwhile, Nigeria has been facing similar challenges, in addition of worsening insecurity, which are possibly worse than what Sri Lanka faces, for years and no minister has deemed it fit to resign from office. Rather, President Muhammadu Buhari's government has been clamping down on peaceful protesters and critics of his administration who have demanded that the situation must change.