Kaduna State Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) says that Nigerians are thirsty due to poor economy, bad governance and insecurity in the country. Rev. John Joseph Hayab, Kaduna CAN Chairman in his Easter message to Nigerians said, “Jesus, in the last days and hours of his agony made many spiritual revelations about life and how to address human, spiritual, and physical needs. Jesus on the cross shared in human pains by saying ‘I am thirsty.’ Indeed, Nigerians, nowadays, can say, like Jesus on the cross of cavalry, that they are thirsty.” He added, “They are thirsty due to poor economy, thirsty due to bad governance, and thirsty because of insecurity. All the thirst experiences could lead to misery.“Accordingly, celebrating Jesus’s victory at Easter with a dry throat, dry stomach, and dry lifestyle is because of the failure of the successive administrations, as well as the existing one.” According to him, the government needs to provide cold water to quench the thirst of Nigerians, saying that people have been crying out loud like Jesus on the cross, that they are thirsty. He said, sadly, Nigerian leaders do not appear to care.He wished that Nigerian leaders could learn from the soldiers who were with Jesus while he was on the cross, stressing that when the Lord cried out that he was thirsty, they provided vinegar for succour. “So, what is basic is that the government needs to provide cold water to quench the thirst of Nigerians. People have been crying out loud, like Jesus on the cross, that they are thirsty, but, sadly, the leaders do not appear to care. However, there is a lesson that I wish Nigerian leaders could learn from the soldiers that policed Jesus on the cross. When the Lord cried out of thirst, they provided vinegar for succour,” Hayab said. The body, therefore, appealed to the government to take concrete steps towards providing palliatives that could quench the thirst of Nigerians and make them have confidence in the affairs of the country. He said, “The citizens, on their part, should similarly be one another’s keeper by contributing meaningfully to national growth; they should also support to quench the thirst of their neighbours, friends, and the underprivileged near them.”