An Appeal Court sitting in Abuja has reserved judgement to a later date in an appeal filed by human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, challenging a high court judgment on the leadership of the African Action Congress (AAC). Sowore had in an appeal marked CA/A/812/2019 challenged the judgment of Justice Inyang Ekwo declaring Leonard Nzenwa as Acting Chairman of the AAC. 





At the resumed hearing of the appeal on Tuesday before a three-man panel headed by Justice A. J. Adah, Sowore's lawyer, who is also the National Legal Adviser of the party, Barr. Inibehe Effiong, urged the court to set aside the judgment of the lower court and grant all the reliefs sought by the appellant. He prayed the court to be lenient in fixing a shorter date for the judgement considering the timetable by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) regarding the party primaries.Effiong who later addressed journalists on the court premises, said, "Our appeal is predicated on lack of subject matter jurisdiction, breach of Sowore and Dr. Malcom to a fair hearing and lastly on improper evaluation of evidence. "The matter has been delayed since 2019 for several reasons but thanks to the Glory of God today we have finally come to the last bus stop in this matter. "Because today I am to announce that our appeal was heard and judgement has now been reserved for a date that will be communicated."You are also aware that after the hearing of the appeal, I did call the attention of my Lords to the INEC timetable regarding the time for primaries in pleading with the court that in fixing a date for judgement, That date should be taken into cognisance and my Lords said they are aware of it. "The obstacles to the hearing of the appeal on the merit were defeated today. INEC which is supposed to be an unbiased umpire filed a brief of argument and when you open the next page, you see preliminary objection and they did not respond to any of our arguments. "INEC agreed with us that the lower court had no jurisdiction. The same INEC speaking with the other side of their mouths said no, even though they agreed with the appellant that the federal high court had no jurisdiction. They asked that our appeal should be struck out which we had replied to. "INEC had no option but was forced to withdraw their objection, asking that Sowore’s appeal be struck out. That application by INEC no longer exists.”