Workers and Youth Solidarity Network has urged the Nigerian Government to implement the 10-year agreement reached with research institutes’ workers since 2010.The Joint Research and Allied Institutions Sector Unions including the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions, Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions, and the Academic Staff Union of Research Institutions, had embarked on strike since November 2021 to press home thier demands. The workers have vowed not to return to work until the government yields to its demands.Dammy Owot, Secretary of WSYN, said the ruling class in Nigeria was responsible for strike action and urged Nigerians to put the blame on the “irresponsible and irresponsive Muhammadu Buhari regime”.The statement reads, “The striking unions also  demands include payment of 12-month Consolidated Research and Allied Institutions Salary Structure arrears of 53.37 per cent increase, withdrawal of circular on non-skipping of salary Grade Level 10 (NICN judgment in favour of trade unions and others), retirement age of 65 years for non-research staff as obtainable in the universities and others, as well as peculiar and earned allowances, adequate funding of research institutes and release of scheme/conditions of service, among others.“The ruling class in Nigeria are responsible for this strike and Nigerians should place the blame on the irresponsible and irresponsive  Buhari regime. To us in Workers and Youth Solidarity Network we know that the importance of research to the development of a nation can never be overemphasised. The crisis therefore is looting by different sections of the ruling class , that put little research in the research institutions. “Workers and Youth Solidarity Network offers its full support to the working researchers and their unions. With the present covid 19 pandemic crisis in Nigeria and all over the world, research institute.“We call on the Federal Governments to  immediately agrees to the  demands of the research workers, and implement the 2010 agreement. Government has failed to offer a round table meeting with the striking unions. Wecall for unity and among the union and continue public rallies like the one they organised in Ibadan, Oyo state and in other part of Nigeria last year. Such rallies are needed more to be replicated in all other part of Nigeria where there's branches. “Workers and Youth Solidarity Network hold strongly that in a globalised world, the role of research in an academic institution is significant for its sustainability and development, and it is important to have knowledge-driven growth based on innovation. The quest for knowledge is the basic principle behind research. So therefore the Buhari regime has no reason to continue to take research institute with levity hand. “If we have a formidable research institutions it will play important role in discovering new treatments such has ending covid 19, and making sure that we  can use existing treatments in the best possible ways. For us in Workers and Youth Solidarity Network, we demand that workers should unite to form a mass workers political alternative to build a forces that can bring pro working class government to power with a socialist program. It's only when workers who are suffering fight for political power and build such movement that can solve unresolved crisis in education and research institute.”