Pro-Biafra group, the Biafra Nations League (BNL) has ordered its men to regroup in order to block border entrances and roads ahead of April 8, 2022.  The group also directed its members to kidnap oil workers in the Southeastern borders and coastal areas.  The group gave the order with respect to the court proceedings of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu which comes up on the said date.  The BnL in a statement on Monday says it is ready to carry out the directives of its leader, Princewill Richards after the Standing Committee of Senior Officials on Sunday met with Commanders of 'Black Marine' and 'Dragon Marine', two 'deadly' battalions loyal to the group in the Bakassi Peninsula.  Meanwhile, there has been intense pressure on oil companies in the region to suspend operations before 8 April, following Richards directive some days ago.   The statement reads, “Separatists militants in the Gulf of Guinea are regrouping following directives by the Biafra Nations League, BnL, urging its members and militias to block border entrances, roads and apprehend oil workers in the Southeastern borders and coastal areas.  “The Standing Committee of Senior Officials of BnL yesterday reportedly hosted Commanders of 'Black Marine' and 'Dragon Marine', two deadly battalions loyal to the group in the Bakassi Peninsula.  “Recall that the national leader of BnL, Princewill Richards had issued directives to BnL supporters to apprehend oil workers whose companies have refused to shut down. This came amid warnings that the group would go on the rampage in solidarity with the court trial of Mr Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).  “BnL is a separatist group demanding the independence of Biafra. They operate mainly at international border towns in both the hinterlands and the Peninsula. They sometimes clash with Cameroonian Forces over control of Bakassi Peninsula.  "Recall that on 8 November 2021, BnL took control of a border entrance between Akpabuyo and Bakassi, hoisting the Biafran flag, the rebels retreated before Nigerian Army arrived.”