The Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, has assured that Federal Government will ensure that justice is served in the matter of the gospel artist Osinachi Nwachukwu, who allegedly died as a result of unreported serial domestic violence meted out to her by her husband, Peter Nwachukwu.Osinachi’s death was announced on Friday night after battling reported cancer. Minutes later, it was learnt that the singer died in the hospital after suffering domestic violence from her husband.Singer, Frank Edwards, also disclosed that an “unreasonable human” put an end to her life.There are reports that Osinachi refused to leave the marriage despite domestic violence because of her commitment to the church.However, the Minister in a statement on Monday, said she personally signed domestic violence as a crime under the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act (2015), stressing that Peter Nwachukwu, the husband of the late popular gospel artiste, would be prosecuted.She called on religious and traditional institutions, as well as the immediate families to join in the fight to rid the society of such acts.The statement reads in part: “As with every news of domestic violence which spreads like wildfire, I was woken up to the news of the untimely death of one of Nigeria’s finest female gospel artists Osinachi Nwachukwu, who was said to have died as a result of cancer on 8th April 2022. This could have passed as one of those news, until new facts started emerging that she died as a result of domestic violence.“Then you begin to wonder and ask how such a talented and self-accomplished individual who loved God has been a victim? It is now truly obvious that violence knows no class or creed. It could have been that she cried out to her church or pastor or friends or family, but all she got was “it is well” and now that the inevitable has happened, they are speaking out. It is NOT WELL if we carry on with the traditional ways of sweeping bad behaviour under the carpet."In Nigeria today, Domestic Violence is a crime under the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act (2015). The Federal Government of Nigeria and the states have declared zero tolerance for Gender-Based Violence. And so, the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs under my watch will prosecute this matter to get justice for Osinachi."It is obvious that her children also need psycho-social support to heal from this trauma if it is true that their Father will go the whole length of tying her up and asking the children to flog her with a cane. This is unbelievable and MUST be condemned in all its ramifications."The ministry working with relevant authorities will set in motion the mechanism to rehabilitate these children so that they do not grow up damaged and assume that such acts are normal thereby poisoning our society."I know that more women are going through such traumatic experiences, please give them a listening ear, provide wise counsel and save them from untimely death. I am not advocating for divorce for those, who will misunderstand me! All I am asking is that we stand up to the truth where necessary and promptly so as to save a life when you have an opportunity to do so. We cannot continue to keep losing our young women to mentally unstable young men all in the name of marriage. Life first before anything."Our religious and traditional institutions, as well as the immediate families must join us in this fight to rid our society of such acts before they become fatal. May the soul of Osinachi and all those who have lost their lives as a result of domestic violence rest in peace. Please if you see something, speak out so that together we can save lives. She added.