While the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has yet to announce the opening of election campaigns, principals of secondary schools in Oyo State have begun campaigning for the governor of the state, Seyi Makinde. The principals have also mandated all teachers and non-teaching staff members to join the campaign on Wednesday, April 27, 2022, irrespective of their party affiliation or view about politics. Some of the principals have told their school teachers and other workers that attendance will be taken at the event, stressing that they are all expected to attend. SaharaReporters learnt that principals summoned staff members in their respective schools to a meeting last week, where the teachers and non-teaching staff members were told about the plan to campaign for Makinde. Tagged 'Emergency Meeting, the staff members of the schools were told that their attendance at the event to hold this Wednesday, April 27, 2022, was mandatory. "In my school and other secondary schools in Zone 4, the so-called 'emergency meeting' was held last Wednesday. We were told about the plan to have school teachers campaign for Governor Makinde. It took many of us by surprise," a teacher told SaharaReporters on Tuesday. On Monday evening, some school principals sent memos to all staff members on WhatsApp, reminding them about Wednesday's event. In a memo sent out to the teachers, a copy of which was obtained by SaharaReporters, the principals asked all teachers to be on their seats at the Single Lawn tennis court, Lekan Salami Stadium, Adamasingba, Ibadan by 8.30 am on Wednesday.SaharaReporters learnt that in some schools, principals are threatening the teachers to ensure they attend because attendance would be taken and anyone who failed to attend was toying with their job.The memo reads in part; "I have the directive to remind you once again about the celebration of love and appreciation in the life of our God-sent Governor, His Excellency, Engr Oluseyi Abiodun Makinde, as a matter of duty, kindly pass the information to everyone who might have not heard. Thanks. The Venue is Single Lawn tennis court, Lekan Salami Stadium, Adamasingba, Ibadan.""At 8:30 am, please note that attendance is necessary. Everyone must be seated on or before 8:30 am," the message added. Further investigation by SaharaReporters revealed that some members of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) among the principals had provided some financial inducements to their teachers and some members of staff to convince the others.However, some teachers and non-teaching staff members in public secondary schools in the state have been grumbling, asking why a political rally to support the governor would be made compulsory for government workers. "When did it become compulsory for civil servants to be politicians and be part of the campaign for the governor? Some teachers are members of APC (All Progressives Congress) or other parties while some of us do not even support any party. "Was I employed by the state government because I was qualified for the job or because I belonged to a particular party? Why are they bringing politics into public schools and the civil service? Is it stated in my appointment letter that I would have to become a member of a party or that I would be required to teach diligently? I don't understand what this country is turning to," a teacher told SaharaReporters. "It is true. Fine, the governor has done well for us but why must it be compulsory? For some of us who are not having any relationship with the PDP, does it mean that we don't have a choice? I will still get the names of those behind it," another source in a school promised.