Human rights activist, Aisha Yesufu has urged Nigerians to rise up and speak against the insecurity ravaging various parts of the country. Yesufu who noted that tomorrow (Thursday), April 14 will mark the 8th remembrance of the Chibok kidnap incident, said Nigerians should hold those in government accountable for the security of lives. 





Her comment comes in the light of the forthcoming general elections in 2023 as many politicians have declared interest to contest for various political positions. Over 200 girls were kidnapped from a secondary school in Chibok, Borno State in April 2014. About 100 girls are still believed to be with the terror group with most of the others released after negotiation with the government. In a video sent to SaharaReporters, Yesufu stated that Nigerians should speak for those who are currently victims, noting that anyone can become a victim. She said, “Tomorrow is going to be 8 years that Chibok girls were taken away, on the 1000th day of the abduction. My daughter said something, she said as long as Chibok girls are in captivity, we all are in captivity and unfortunately, we have so many of our citizens who are in captivity. People have been taken away, just ask yourself if you're taken away right now, what will be the value of your life? “Will your government care for you? There are some people who already know that answer, they are in the bushes right now. Many people were abducted in the train attack unfortunately we have a callous government and callous people who even denied that the abduction happened, they denied that there were attacks and killing and probably still deny just as we have people who deny that Chibok abductions happened. “We are all victims waiting to happen, yesterday's victims were once survivors. Today's victims were yesterday's survivors and tomorrow's victims are today's survivors, we are all victims waiting to happen. The victim card is going round, who is next? “You think you are safe? The people who are victims today once thought they were safe and here they are, they are victims. The next to be victims are those of us who think we are safe today, have you made a demand for those people who were abducted from the train? The government has turned its back on them, nobody is saying anything. “What kind of life is this? If your fellow citizens are abducted and nothing is done about it, when you get abducted, nothing will be done about it. I know a lot of people will say ‘God forbid' but God will not do for us what he has given us the capacity to do for ourselves. “Those who were abducted once said ‘God forbid' and the only way our lives will matter is to hold the government accountable. It's election eve and these politicians are going around doing their shenanigans, laughing, giggling, smiling and having meetings, focusing on who becomes President, Governor, Senator, etc. Nobody cares about what becomes of you, what will you care about you? “There are citizens who have been abducted and are in the bushes right now, we cannot continue to be quiet and when one of us is taken, all of us must come out as if we are all taken, that's the only way to send a message to the government that we'll not allow them to abdicate their responsibilities and the only way to send message to terrorists that we won't sit and watch them take any of us without coming after them."