The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has fired back at those who accused his principal, Muhammadu Buhari of dividing Nigeria with his style of leadership. Adesina, who also absolved Buhari of any blame following escalating cases of insecurity and hardship in the country, said the President has done more to unite Nigeria than any other leader in the history of the nation.  The Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Hassan Matthew Kukah on Sunday, heavily criticised Buhari over insecurity, corruption, and division in Nigeria. Kukah made his complaints known in his Easter Message titled, ‘To mend a broken nation: The Easter metaphor’. According to the bishop, every aspect of life in Nigeria has been destroyed while corruption is enthroned. He said, “It is hard to know whether the problem is that those in power do not hear, see, feel, know, or just don’t care. Either way, from this crossroad, we must make a choice, to go forward, turn left or right or return home. None of these choices is easy, yet, guided by the light of the risen Christ, we can reclaim our country from its impending slide to anarchy. “The challenge of fixing this broken nation is enormous and, as I have said, requires joint efforts. With everything literally broken down, our country has become one big emergency national hospital with full occupancy. Our individual hearts are broken. Our family dreams are broken. Homes are broken. Churches, Mosques, and infrastructure are broken. “Our educational system is broken. Our children’s lives and future are broken. Our politics is broken. Our economy is broken. Our energy system is broken. Our security system is broken. Our roads and rails are broken. Only corruption is alive and well,” the message read in part. But in a veil response to Kukah’s harsh criticism of Buhari’s regime on Monday, Adesina said those accusing the President of dividing the country are the ones who used their mouths and unguarded comments to divide Nigeria. In a tweet on his verified Twitter handle, Adesina wrote, “Those who divided Nigeria with their mouths, with evil, unguarded speaking, are the ones now accusing President Buhari. How sad! Their wicked intentions shall not come to pass.”