Admission seekers have accused the Federal College of Education (FCE) Yola, of selling admission forms for none existing degree programmes.FCE Yola in Adamawa State reportedly sold thousands of admission forms to unsuspecting applicants at the rate of N3,500, SaharaReporters has learnt. As gathered, the college's Directorate of Undergraduate Programmes sold the controversial admission forms for the 2021/2022 academic session in 16 new courses said to be affiliated to the universities of Maiduguri and Jos.As further gathered, FCE Yola was granted the approval to run only nine accredited courses affiliated with the University of Maiduguri starting from the 2014/2015 academic season. A source in the school who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said, "There was no way the college could have obtained approval from the National Universities Commission to introduce additional 16 courses beyond its original capacity of nine." Notwithstanding, the college placed an advertisement in the mass media informing the public that it had obtained approval to run 16 additional degree programmes, supposedly affiliated with the universities of Jos and Maiduguri. Accordingly, it called for applications into the 16 new degree programmes, urging prospective applicants to pay a non-refundable admission fee of N3,500. The courses as advertised include Early Childhood Care and primary education; Computer Science Education; Social Studies; Guidance and Counselling; Education Management and Christian Religious Studies. Other new courses advertised include Continuing Education; French Education; Business Education; Economics Education; Fine and Applied Arts; Geography; Hausa Language; Physics and Political Science Education. However, in a dramatic twist, the institution in a text message, invited applicants to come forward for a refund. The message reads, “Please come with your account details and receipt of payment to the Bursary Dept., FCE, Yola for the refund of your application fees into Undergraduate Studies. -Bursar.” The management, in a press release also issued a public apology for the blunder. The spokesperson for the college, Takason Kloso, explained that the advertised degrees were no longer feasible for the 2021/2022 academic session. Kloso said, “The Federal College of Education Yola, regrets to inform candidates who had obtained application forms for admission into new degree programmes that it is not feasible to conduct admission during the 2021/2022 session. “Accordingly, affected candidates are requested to submit to the Bursary Department of the College, their bank account details and proof of payment for refunds.”