The Nigerian government has been accused of being silent on what it is doing to secure the release of passengers abducted during a recent attack on a Kaduna-bound train. Some terrorists on Monday, March 28, attacked an Abuja-Kaduna train, Kidnapping many of the passengers.  Eight persons were also confirmed killed and 26 others injured. However, the families of the abducted passengers have accused the government of being silent about what it is doing to rescue their loved ones since the incident occurred. Aminu Othman, whose brother was abducted, on Thursday said the Nigerian government has not been forthcoming with information as regards those abducted, Punch reports.This, he said, was why the families of the victims decided to stage a protest at the Federal Ministry of Transportation on Thursday, before they were informed that the ministry was holding a press briefing at the Radio House, Abuja. He said, “The government is not coming forth with any information. For the past 10 days, we’ve not heard anything from the government. My immediate younger brother and his wife are among the victims and they are still with the kidnappers. “It is the most difficult 10 days I’ve ever had in my life. It is a nightmare for me. We can’t sleep, we can’t eat and it’s been seriously tough for us.” The family members of the missing passengers staged the protest at the venue of a ministerial press briefing organised by the Federal Ministry of Transportation in Abuja.Before the commencement of the briefing which was held at the Radio House in Abuja, the families stormed the venue and displayed placards demanding the government rescue their loved ones. Idayat Yusuf, whose two sisters were abducted by the terrorists, told journalists that the government should come to their aid and rescue their loved ones. She said, “The government should come to the aid of those who are alive. We are sorry and sympathise with the families of those who lost their lives and those in the hospital. But for those who are alive, at least government should bring them back,” Yusuf stated, as she broke down in tears. “We are praying for the government to be able to rescue them. Two of my sisters from the same mother and father are among those kidnapped.” Reacting to the protest, while speaking in the conference hall of the Radio House, the Minister of State for Transportation, Gbemisola Saraki, said the ministry could not disclose all that was being done to ensure the safe return of the abducted passengers.She, however, noted that the government was doing a lot to ensure that the passengers regained freedom, adding that efforts were being made to ensure that no life was lost among those kidnapped.