Security operatives on Sunday engaged some unknown gunmen in a shootout in some parts of Orlu and Orsu local government areas of Imo state. SaharaReporters learnt that the security operatives also burnt a number of houses in the affected communities. A popular brothel, Ukwu Aki in Amaifeke Orlu, was allegedly burnt by security operatives.  It was learnt that the shooting started from Banana junction before spreading to other areas. Other affected areas were Amanachi, Awo-idemili in the Orsu Local Government Area of the state. Many were feared killed in the gun battle with an unspecified number of persons also injured. Residents alleged that the security operatives attacked people in their homes. Meanwhile, #OrluIsBleeding has been trending on Nigerian Twitter, with many tweeps saying they need to draw the attention of the world to what is going on Orlu. In a post on Twitter, on Sunday, I H I E C H I U K W U  (@IHECHI__E) said, “This is how Easter went today 17/04/22 in Orlu. The Nigerian soldiers came to the streets in Amaifeke in Orlu & started shooting innocent people down without provocation. “This genocide has been going on for over 1yr. People have deserted their homes.”  #OrluGenocide. This is how Easter went today 17/04/22 in Orlu. The Nigerian soldiers came to the streets in Amaifeke in Orlu & started shooting innocent people down without provocation. This genocide has been going on for over 1yr. People have deserted their homes.#Thread. pic.twitter.com/eLY96m1C2S  Elochukwu Ohagi (@ElochukwuOhagi) also said on Twitter, “We must create awareness of the continuous massacre of our people in Orlu by Nigerịa forces. “We must raise our voice to the carnage happening in Orlu. Nigerịa government have no right to kịll innocent people in their homes.” Emmanuedl John (@EmmanuelIgweb12) said, “Today being Easter Sunday, the indigenes of Orlu in imo state celebrated their own Easter with tears as the Nigeria military, Joint force unleashed mayhem on them earlier today. Their houses and properties was burnt, many lives lost, many injured.”  Today being Easter Sunday, the indigenes of Orlu in imo state celebrated their own Easter with tears as the Nigeria military, Joint force unleashed mayhem on them earlier today. Their houses and properties was burnt, many lives lost, many injured.#OrluIsBleeding#StoptheKillings pic.twitter.com/tDvM9IBcST 