The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Tuesday declared that the state would support Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s presidential bid. The governor had been in dilemma over who to support between Osinbajo and former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu.  Meanwhile, both Osinbajo and Tinubu were instrumental to Abiodun’s victory when he battled former Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s anointed candidate, Abdulkabir Akinlade in the last election. Insiders said the duo expects loyalty and support from the governor who is now in dilemma. Also, his cabinet members are divided as some are backing Osinbajo’s bid while others are in firm support of Tinubu. A source close to the cabinet, however, told Daily Trust that Abiodun had not given a directive to his aides on who to support between Tinubu and Osinbajo. But Abiodun on Tuesday said Ogun would back Osinbajo, an indigene of the state from Ikenne in Ikenne LGA. He said the support would enable him to continue with some of the laudable projects of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led’s administration. Speaking at a stakeholder meeting with the VP held at the Akarigbo Palace Sagamu, the Alake Palace in Abeokuta and the Presidential Lodge, Ibara, Abeokuta, as well as the Palace of Olu of Ilaro and Paramount ruler of Yewaland, Abiodun said Osinbajo in the last seven years, had contributed to the many successes recorded by the federal government, noting “He is eminently qualified to lead the country.” The governor, who extolled the VP’s academic exploit, recalled how he stood behind his gubernatorial election and described him as a man who is interested in fairness, justice, equity and the rule of law. In his speech, the VP said he was not in the state to campaign, but to inform his people of his intention to run for the office of the president. Osinbajo said he had consulted widely across all sections of the society, including with President Muhammadu Buhari before he threw his hat into the ring to succeed his boss. Recounting his contributions to the present federal government, Osinbajo said he was actively involved in the judiciary reforms and its repositioning to work optimally and ensure that judges are adequately enumerated. The paramount ruler of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, in his remarks, posited that the vice president was competent with the required qualification to lead the nation, observing that his performance as the acting president is there for all to see.