No fewer than two persons were killed on Monday morning as gunmen invaded the Ohaogelode community in the Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The Ohaogelode community, according to reports, is a neighbouring community to Effium, in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state which has been involved in a violent communal crisis.  The lingering communal conflict in the state between the Effium and Ezza Effium peoples has been violent, resulting in killings and the destruction of property. Vanguard reports that a video of the incident circulating online showed that at least two persons were killed. In the video, a victim was burnt to death beside a building that was still on fire. Another dead victim, a woman, was seen in the video with machete cuts all over her body. However, unconfirmed reports said at least four persons were killed as over five houses were burnt by the attackers. Meanwhile, a statement credited to the Chairman of Ohaukwu Local Government Area, Clement Odah condemned the attack. The statement reads: “Ohaukwu Local Government Council has received with concern, a report of the unfortunate incident at Ohaogelode Village, in Ishieke community.  “The council condemns the incident in strong terms and reassures all that no stones will be left unturned to unravel the true circumstances that led to such avoidable loss of lives and properties. “Council has initiated a spirited and discreet investigation to unveil the perpetrators of the act and ensure that justice is done.  “Our heartfelt sympathies go to all the affected families and our beloved brothers from Ohaogelode village. Council reaffirms that both Ishieke and Effium communities have lived in peace as brothers from time immemorial and this peace must not be tampered with.” “The government of Ebonyi State under our peace-loving governor has worked assiduously to restore peace in the entire Ebonyi State and all hands must be on deck to achieve the task of a peaceful Ebonyi State where love and unity reign supreme. “Once again all parties are assured that justice must be done as a deterrent and guarantee against future re-occurrence,” Odah added.