No fewer than 20 senior officials were affected by a reorganisation at Nigerian Ports Authority.  The General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, NPA, Mr Ibrahim Nasiru, made this known in a statement on Saturday.  Nasiru said the changes were in furtherance to NPA’s goal to reposition the country’s port system as the preferred cargo destination in Africa.  According to him, Mrs Madubuike Ugo, General Manager of Monitoring and Regulatory Services is now the General Manager, Public-Private Partnerships.  “Mrs Williams Idowu, General Manager, Public Private Partnerships, takes over as General Manager, Monitoring and Regulatory Services.  “Mr Ajibola Olagoke, General Manager, Administration, is now General Manager, Superannuation; Mrs Moltok Adar, General Manager, Servicom, moves to Administration, while Mr Musa Yaro, General Manager, Procurement, now heads the Servicom Unit.  “Mrs Anthonia Ohagwa, General Manager, ICT, moves to Tariff and Billing, while Mr Anthony Edosomwan now heads the ICT Department,” part of the statement read.  He said that Mr Mohammed Shehu, General Manager, Tariff and Billing, is now the General Manager, Procurement, while Khadijat Sheidu-Shabi had been re-designated General Manager, Managing Director’s Office/TA Administration.  Nasiru also said that Abubakar Umar, Assistant General Manager, Audit (Policy and Compliance), currently heads Finance and Investment Department.  He stated that Mr Felix Bassey, Assistant General Manager, HR Operations, would now be reporting to the General Manager, Administration, as Assistant General Manager, Administration.  “Mrs Dairo Olufunke, Assistant General Manager, Performance Management, is now Assistant General Manager, HR Operations.  “Mr Allen Bankole, Assistant General Manager, Electrical and Corrosion, is now to act as General Manager Engineering.  “Zhimwan Audu, Assistant General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications (C&SC), reports to General Manager, PPP, as Assistant General Manager, PPP (New Business).  “Alhassan Ismaila Abubakar, Assistant General Manager Operations – TA to MD (Admin), moves to the Abuja Liaison Office as Assistant General Manager.  “Mr Richard Terfa, Assistant General Manager PPP – TA to MD (Engineering), is now Assistant General Manager, Facility Management,” Nasiru stated.  He said that Pella Naphtali Nafarda, Assistant General Manager, Audit (Finance and Investments), was moved to Superannuation Department to head the investment portfolio.  He said that Mr Abdul Sani, Assistant General Manager, Engineering, is now Assistant General Manager, Electrical and Corrosion.  Nasiru said that Okeke Angela Uche, Assistant General Manager, Investment, would report to the General Manager, Audit, as Assistant General Manager, Audit (Policy and Compliance).  “Dantiye Zainab Magaji, Assistant General Manager, Administration, reports to the General Manager, HR, as Assistant General Manager, Performance Management.  “Faturoti Adebanjo, Principal Manager, Hydrography, reports to General Manager, Engineering, to understudy the Assistant General Manager, Hydrography,” he said.  He added that two Technical Assistants had also been appointed.  “They are Abubakar Daniya, Senior Manager Accounts, now Executive/Personal Assistant to the Managing Director, and Mr Sadiq Abubakar Lamuwa, Senior Manager, Civil Engineering, now Technical Assistant (Engineering), to the Managing Director,” he said.  Nasiru said that all appointments were with immediate effect.