Former President of Nigeria, Goodluck Jonathan is currently in a meeting over a possible presidential ambition in the 2023 general elections. There had been speculations that Jonathan might dump the Peoples Democratic Party to actualise his ambition on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC).  Though tipped to be among those interested in vying for the top office, the former President has refused to make any commitment to it publicly. Some of the supporters of the former president stormed his residence in Abuja on Friday, calling on him to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. They wielded placards and banners with inscriptions saying ‘Goodluck Jonathan must run for president 2023′, “Jonathan is our candidate’, among others. Responding to them, Jonathan asked Nigerian youths to show greater interest in the nation’s political process. The former President said it was time for youths to take advantage of the ‘Not Too Young To Run Act’ to participate actively in the electoral process. He said he was aware that they were “here to ask me to declare,” but noted, “I cannot declare because some processes are still ongoing.” “Yes, you are calling me to come and declare for the next election, I cannot tell I’m declaring. The political process is ongoing, just watch out. The key role you must play is that Nigeria must get somebody that will carry young people along.” SaharaReporters had recently reported how Jonathan rejected some of the conditions given to him by members of the Aso Rock (Presidency) cabal to get the 2023 presidential automatic ticket of the ruling APC. One of the conditions was that the former President must officially defect to the APC with some PDP governors in the South-South and South-East regions. Sources however told SaharaReporters that he rejected the conditions and told the cabal he didn’t have interest in the 2023 presidency again. His response, it was gathered, embarrassed the cabal members who described the former President as a traitor.Jonathan became Acting President in 2010 when President Umaru Yar’Adua died. He contested in 2011 and won the election to become President. He again contested in 2015 for a second term in office but was defeated by Muhammadu Buhari, the incumbent President.