The founder of the House On The Rock Church, Pastor Paul Adefarasin, Sunday, revealed the plans by some Christian leaders to influence the choice of presidential candidate their church members should vote for.  Adefarasin made this revelation during his preaching on Sunday.  The cleric also called on Christians to get their Permanent Voter Card (PVC) to vote for candidates endorsed by church leaders to influence the 2023 general elections.  He further told his congregants that instructions regarding which political candidates to vote for would be provided.  “When we get closer, we will share the profile of the candidate that you should vote for and the ones who tick the most boxes,” he said.  “Those are the ones you should vote for. It is imperative that every believer; online and offline, you must get your PVC.  “I’m a man under authority; once used to be the Deputy President of the PFN (Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria) and did not want to go further in that structure, in that executive office, so I can have more time to pastor this church and other things I feel like God is telling me to do. I’m still on the National Advisory Council and we have been instructed that every Christian, every human being you can contact must have a PVC and must prepare to vote.  “When we get closer, we will share the profile of the candidate that you should vote for and the ones who tick the most boxes, those are the ones you should vote for.  “We believe, we can get 15 million more voters and that becomes a very significant bloc that must be respected and it adds to the platform of our voice, harmonised as Christian leaders.  “One thing that the next president absolutely must be is a respecter of the law.” Recently, the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) established a directorate to oversee political aspirants in the church and monitor their success.  Nigeria’s Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo is a member and pastor of the church.  Although Osinbajo has not declared his interest in the 2023 presidential race, different groups have been soliciting the support of Nigerians for the vice-president.  A few weeks after, a presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu urged the Supreme Council for Shari’ah in the country to also create the directorate of politics, which according to him is to create political awareness among the faithful towards producing a Muslim president in 2023.  He had said, “Other religious groups have commenced political sensitisation by creating political departments or directorate among themselves to promote their own. You should create a political wing among yourself so that it will further gear your participation in politics, it will be a good platform to support your brothers who are vying for political positions.  “There is a need for us to act toward our prayers, the emergence of a good leader but we need to partake in political activities. Almighty Allah answers our prayer through our actions so while praying let us act towards it.  “Through the president of the Supreme Council for Shari’ah in Nigeria, I will visit all states of this nation. I can’t be opportune to see all Muslims in Nigeria but through the Muslim leaders, we can make it happen.”