The Catholic Bishop of the Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Kukah, says he holds no personal grudge against President Muhammadu Buhari except that his administration had failed.Kukah, while speaking on Arise TV on Tuesday morning said Buhari makes wrong decisions and policies that are affecting the growth and development of the nation. Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Kukah
Pulse Nigeria


He said even Aisha Buhari, the nation's First Lady agrees with what he said about her husband.Kukah said, “All those saying I attacked the president, I have never attacked his person. All I have spoken about is his inability to manage diversities effectively and efficiently. I have studied diversity as a subject and I know what I am talking about.“Those who think these things are personal would see that I have never talked about his person or character; I believe he is a gentleman but as far as being the president is concerned, he has done a bad job, even his wife has also disagreed with his policies.“So, those guys should not sit in their air-conditioned office drinking coffee and think everything is honky-donkey. Let them disagree with the text of my message.”Recall that Kukah during his Easter message had accused Buhari of destroying Nigeria and also alleged that the President was allowing corruption to fester.“With everything literally broken down, our country has become one big emergency national hospital with full occupancy,” he had said.“Our individual hearts are broken. Our family dreams are broken. Homes are broken. Churches, Mosques, infrastructure are broken. Our educational system is broken. Our children’s lives and future are broken. Our politics is broken. Our economy is broken. Our energy system is broken. Our security system is broken. Our roads and rails are broken. Only corruption is alive and well.”But Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, had accused the cleric of hatred for the Buhari administration and using the pulpit to play politics.Reacting to the assertions of Shehu, Kulah said he had great respect for the president but he had failed woefully in the delivery of his job.He said, “Let me set the record straight, I delivered my sermon to my congregation and the message. The bearers of the message are directed primarily to the good people of Sokoto dioceses.“The president knows that I have great respect for him and he is a gentleman, but he has done a terribly bad job as the president of Nigeria.“There is nothing I am saying that is new, all the pastors who preached yesterday during the Easter service said the same thing. Tell me one thing about the message that I preached that you disagree with and let’s discuss.”He added, “For a Muslim (Garba Shehu) to sit down and tell me what an Easter message should contain is something.“Buhari himself knows that there is nothing personal in what I say. One thing the president has said that humbled me is that he told me ‘Bishop Kukah, I know where you stand on any issue that has to do with Nigeria.’“What connected me with Buhari and a lot of Muslims is not the catholic church, it is my public position on a lot of things. And I am not saying it so that you must agree with me. But Nigerians have been extraordinarily magnanimous because I have not had many people saying we disagree with you and I have not spoken because I know the issue. The primary beneficiary of what I say is me and I speak for myself. If you have any issues with me, let’s clarify the issue.”