Senator Aliyu Wamakko who represents Sokoto North senatorial district on Thursday donated wrappers and cash to indigent women in Sokoto. Wamakko is also a former governor of the state.According to NAN, the donation is part of his perennial gestures to the beneficiaries to cushion the effects of poverty as they celebrate the Eid-el-Fitr.  Bashar Abubakar, the New Media Aide to Wamakko, said in a statement on Friday in Sokoto, that the former governor of the state personally distributed the Sallah packages to the beneficiaries. Abubakar said the beneficiaries included young girls, ladies and old women, among others. “As usual, every year, during the month of Ramadan, the Senator gives out such gifts to mainly the underprivileged in the society. “This is in order to cushion the effect of poverty among the people in the state,” he added. According to Abubakar, the beneficiaries were each given a set of wrappers and cash to sew them. SaharaReporters in February also reported how a councillor in Sokoto donated two plastic mats to Sadada community in the Kebbe Local Government Area of the state. The shameless councillor, whose name could not be verified as of the time of filing the report, also took pictures with the beneficiaries while making the donations. Such ridiculous donations by Nigerian politicians are not new but politicians in the country seem to take the practice to new embarrassing heights. The usual items had included tricycles, motorcycles, and grinding machines, but water sachets and shoe-shining starter kits have also been donated by politicians. SaharaReporters had reported how donkeys were given out in Kano and cassava stems in Anambra as economic empowerment by government representatives who enjoy all the pecks of office, and in many cases, funds corruptly acquired, all at the expense of taxpayers. SaharaReporters had reported how an aide to the Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, once distributed wheelbarrows with the inscription, "Gov Ortom for You," arguing that the beneficiaries would use the wheelbarrows to run errands and hawk. Later the wheelbarrow empowerment resurfaced in Taraba State as a member of the House of Representatives, Maigari Bello-Kasimu, representing Jalingo/Yorro/Zing federal constituency, distributed wheelbarrows to empower some members of his constituency."All of them used to hire wheelbarrows and push to earn their living, but now they have the opportunity of owning their wheelbarrows," the spokesperson for the lawmaker, Saidu Na-Anabi, had said during the presentation. Na-Anabi's speech probably inspired the late caretaker chairperson of Nsukka Local Government Area in Enugu State, Chinwe Ugwu, to give wheelbarrows to youths in the area as economic empowerment. "These are poor people who cannot afford to buy wheelbarrows but had to hire for between N200 and N300 per day," Ugwu had said in response to critics.  Similarly, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, said he spent N208 million to empower Mai Shayi or tea sellers in the state by giving them items like cartons of noodles, crates of eggs, spaghetti, bread, cocoa beverage, liquid and powdered milk, brown and white sugar, nylon and cups. While Kano governor was beating his chest for such an "extraordinary" achievement, the late Commissioner for Education in Katsina State, Halimatu Idris, outdid him by handing goats to female students at Government Girls Arabic Secondary School, Dutsinma. The goats were reportedly given to female students in 20 secondary schools who were expected to return the nanny goats to the state government after a year. Then came the Commissioner for Education in Borno State, Usman Jaha, who gave shoe-shining kits, baskets, yams and bags of oranges to his constituents in Gwoza as economic empowerment. The shoe-polishing instruments were given to men, while the baskets and fruits were used to empower the women. As more Nigerians face economic hardship and wallow in poverty, largely occasioned by corruption, politicians further insult the populace with the donation of such ridiculous and bizarre items as so-called economic empowerment or welfare packages.