Media entrepreneur and business, Mayor Lucky Igbokwe, has officially joined the race to become the next Governor of Abia State. Igbokwe obtained the expression of interest and nomination forms of the Peoples Democratic Party as he aspires to become the flag-bearer of the party in the 2023 governorship election of the state.  The form was obtained by a support group under the auspices of Concerned Friends led by the Deputy Chief Whip of the Abia State House of Assembly, Right Honourable Kaycee Onuzuruike who said the support is borne out of a goodwill and a call to serve the good people of Abia State to the glory of God In his response, Igbokwe declares his interest to serve adding that his decision to run is borne out of hunger and desire to add value and impetus against the backdrop of the yearnings of the entire people of Abia state, who believe in the youths as an option and to take Abia to the much desired place occasioned by their cries and wishes for good governance and inclusiveness. He said, "I decided to run following calls from stakeholders, including the downtrodden, traditional rulers and eminent sons and daughters of Abia State, and to take up the gauntlet, to stand in the gap to shield our people from any form of hopelessness. "Having seen the roles and contributions of our past leaders, there's no gain saying that they have done their best, but I'm here to reinvigorate our spirits, minds and souls to the much vaunted dreams of our people for a better life. "I have watched a common denominator in believing in the youths as it is said, that a state that carries along her youths prepares them for a better future. "Without the efforts of the past leadership, however, it has become necessary that I bridge the gap, to restore stability, and rebuild the confidence of our youths and the good people of our state." He stated that if elected, he will turn around the fortunes of the state by revolutionising all the sectors of governance with focus on the masses. "If given the PDP ticket and elected governor, I will reposition Abia for economic prosperity by creating the enabling environment for industry to thrive, with a better approach to internally generated revenue that would reduce dependence on federation allocations. "Education will be one of the major objectives of my aspiration, the sector will be reformed to include not only building of schools, but also the provision of incentives to teachers. "We'll revisit the farm settlements, improve and empower the youth in particular and our people in general, through agriculture, the creative industries will receive massive boost under our watch. Tourism will be made more attractive and visitors will come to experience our beautiful cultural heritage and sites," Igbokwe added. Igbokwe is the CEO of 2Flame Media Group, a media and entertainment company. He is also the CEO of other business ventures which includes the Lucion Towers Construction company, Kedu TV LLC, the Don Lulu Foundation, and Green Peace Nigeria. In 2013, Igbokwe was recognized as the United Nations Mayor of Peace for his philanthropic gestures towards community development.