In the history of humankind, arguably the most enduring farewell message one can give to the dead is “Rest in peace (RIP)”. Unfortunately, one dead person who has been fighting a battle to rest serenely is the late Mrs. Elizabeth Ogbodo Egbuna. Her peaceful internment is under threat because the traditional ruler of the community, Ogbeke Agbani in the Nkanu West Local Government Area, HRH Igwe Okechukwu Nwobodo Egbuna has vehemently refused to allow the family of the deceased to bury her.  The traditional ruler, according to sources, had accused the late widow of contravening the community law by reporting a member of the community, one Mr. Chizoba Ani, alias Chizzy, to a human rights organisation fighting for women and girl child, Women's Aid Collective (WACOL), and subsequently, taking him to court over a land matter, which was found to be untrue.  The daughter of the late widow, Chiamaka Egbuna said her mother died after struggling to get justice. She said they had fixed Thursday, April 28, 2022, to bury their mother but the monarch who is their cousin, vowed that he would never allow such burial to be done in his kingdom.  She alleged that their cousin, the traditional ruler, is working in collaboration with members of his cabinet, the chairman of the Ogbeke town union and the Ukuruta Autonomous Community.  She said, "The monarch also barred visitors from attending the burial ceremony, warning that violators of his order would be fined N10, 000 each.  "He also threatened that should my mother's family proceed with the funeral against his pronouncement, they would be banished from the community."  Meanwhile, WACOL has called on the Enugu Command of the Nigeria Police Force, Enugu State Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters to intervene, and avert an impending breakdown of law and order in the Ogbeke-Agbani community.  The group, however, warned the monarch to desist from his alleged brutish style of leadership, and stop insulting the spirit of the dead widow.  The rights organisation in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Egodi Igwe, said the traditional ruler must respect the family’s wish to pay their last respect to their dearly departed.  "The community should be reminded that such outdated custom is horrendous, anachronistic, bizarre, and inimical to all known rules of law, justice, and equity, which formed the tripod on which Nigerian democracy flourishes, hence, should be consigned to the dustbin of history."  Providing insight into the case, Egodi explained that the WACOL team when they received complaints about the monarch's alleged wicked order, paid a visit to the palace of the paramount ruler on Wednesday, April 21, 2022, to ascertain the veracity of his claim regarding the poor widow who died heartbroken in the course of fighting for her inheritance.  According to her, when the team got to the palace, the traditional ruler wasn't around and the wife who was at home, told them that her husband had gone for a burial. "When the team contacted him on the phone, he said he was attending the Enugu State Traditional Rulers Council meeting. Based on this conflicting report of the royal father and his spouse on his whereabouts, the team concluded that he was not ready to accept the 'Olive Branch' being offered to him by WACOL.  "Again, on a further telephone chat with the king, our staff appealed to him to rescind his declaration, and allow the deceased to be given the last respect. He further maintained his stand, saying that it was impossible to do so. He added that the only condition for him to do so is if the family withdraws the pending court case against Mr. Chizoba Ani, alias Chizzy, the person involved in the land dispute.  "Against this backdrop, WACOL reaffirmed that the court remains the last arbitrator and hope for the poor, and vulnerable people in the society. That it is within the fundamental human rights of every citizen, irrespective of their religion, gender, or ethnic inclination to approach the court of law for justice when their rights are threatened, as such no citizen should suffer any form of victimization or unjustifiable traditional sanctions for accessing the instrument of justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria."  She added, "The family has invested huge resources towards arrangements for this planned burial, including purchasing all perishable goods, as well as printed materials such as posters and banners. All these would be wasted should the burial fail to hold.  "WACOL will continue to uphold its mandate which is to promote the rights of women, and girls and protect them, as well as other poor/vulnerable groups in the society from all forms of intimidation, abuse, and discrimination occasioned by obnoxious norms, and practices aimed to silence them, and stifle their spirit of survival and development."  WACOL spokesperson further disclosed that the late Mrs. Elizabeth Egbuna was 80 years old when she died three months ago, adding that before her death, she fought many battles to sustain the landed properties she inherited from her late husband.  She said, "One such battles which she never concluded, was the battle with Mr. Chizoba Ani, popularly known as Chizzy from the same town, Ogbeke Agbani. Chizzy as he is called is an On-Air Personality (OAP), who is currently working with the Solid FM Radio in Enugu as the host of 'Ihe Omenani'.  "While she was alive, Mrs. Egbuna had brought a complaint before WACOL Legal Clinic, alleging that Chizzy encroached on her piece of land at Adauru in Ogbeke Agbani community, on the pretence of creating an access road. She noted that despite all her effort to give the said Chizzy an alternative road, he was bent on grabbing her land, leaving her with no other choice but to seek help at WACOL.  "The late widow informed us (WACOL) that she first reported to her kinsmen through the chairman, then later to the chairman of the Town Union of Ndigu- Ogbeke. According to her, the chairman frowned on Chizzy’s behaviour. The community later resolved that he should use the access road which had been created for him by Mrs. Egbuna at the boundary of the said land, rather than dividing her land into two. But, he defied the community.  "Again the case was taken to HRH Igwe Okechukwu Nwobodo Egbuna, the traditional ruler of Ogbeke-Agbani. In his judgment, Igwe blamed Chizzy and advised him to use the access road from the boundary instead of dividing the widow's land into two. Yet again, Chizzy was adamant.  "To also expedite actions, Igwe further advised the late Mrs. Egbuna to go the extra mile and create the road for Chizzy at the boundary in the interest of peace. They not only accepted but also complied. Unfortunately, after spending funds, and time to create the road, Chizzy rejected it and went back to destroy the widow's crops on the land in question, and even expanded the access road further.  "It was when the Igwe told the widow that he could not intervene further, because Chizzy has been adamant, and had fragrantly defiled all his rulings, that the late Mrs. Egbuna was left with no other option but to seek justice at the WACOL.  "Expectedly, on receiving the complaint, WACOL activated our mechanism for mediating a peaceful resolution but Mr. Chizoba Ani, the accused person blatantly refused to honour our invitation. When all efforts to hold a talk with him failed, WACOL was left with no other choice but to take the case to court on behalf of the family. The matter is before High Court at Agbani in suit no HAGB/7/22.  "Parties in the suit are Elizabeth Egbuna as the complaint, Chizoba Ani as the first respondent, and Mr. Reuben Eneh as the second respondent and cousin to the deceased."  When contacted on the telephone for reaction, Igwe Okechukwu Egbunna admitted that he placed a ban on the burial until the children of the deceased withdrew the court case.  "We have a law in my community and be you who (sic), you can never go against it, so that is the case.  "WACOL can go to any place they like, they can go to Gburugburu, that is (governor) it can't change anything. Unless they withdraw the case from court, they are not going to bury their mother," the traditional ruler said.      