A supporter of the presidential campaign of human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore has been reportedly attacked by state-sponsored political thugs in Osun State.  The campaigner, simply identified as Ayo was brutalised by thugs loyal to a notorious political thug, Asiri Eniba, while returning to his house with campaign posters, a statement by the Take-It-Back Movement noted.  According to the statement, signed by Samson Tola, the Osun State TIB Coordinator, the victim, Ayo, went to Osogbo on Tuesday to collect some campaign materials to take to his domain in Ikirun.  While on the bus back to his house, some of his fellow passengers queried him about the posters, unknown to him that a thug in the vehicle had already mobilised other thugs to assault him. The thugs were said to have dragged Ayo out of the bus and brutalised him.  The TIB called for the immediate prosecution of the thugs who brutalised Ayo while demanding a stop to state-sponsored thuggery and vote-buying.  A statement from the group reads, "We demand arrest and prosecution of state-sponsored political thugs and call on Osun youths to desist from being used for electoral violence and other selfish purposes by corrupt politicians in the state!  ”The Take It Back Movement, TIB, Osun State Chapter decries the aggravated assault of one of Sowore For President campaigners, Mr Ayo, at Osogbo while going back to his hometown Ikirun, by some thugs loyal to one popular political thug, Asiri Eniba.  “We equally call upon the police to arrest and prosecute the lawbreakers accordingly.  “The assaulted Ayo, came to Osogbo in the early morning of today to meet the leadership and members of Osun TIB/AAC for the collection of campaign materials like posters, banners and other needed materials for his domain in Ìkìrun. Immediately after he left, a report came to us that Mr Ayo was attacked, dragged out and mercilessly beaten by thugs while already in the bus conveying him back to Ikirun.  “We found out that some of his fellow passengers in the bus were asking him about the Sowore For President campaign posters he was carrying and he told them about it not knowing that one of the passengers had made a telephone call to some individuals who later came and assaulted him at that spot.  “We want to reiterate our position that the law allows citizens to associate with and campaign for any political party or candidate of their choice devoid of undue interference.  “More importantly, we demand halt to state-sponsored attacks on human and democratic rights of innocent citizens, electoral violence, and vote-buying during elections.”