Preliminary reports on the Abuja-Kaduna train terror attack have shown that there is a collaboration between bandits and dislodged Boko Haram terrorists from the North-East. This was made known by the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, on Wednesday. 

Lai Mohammed



While he claimed the Nigerian Government was working to unravel the mystery surrounding the attack, he, however, said measures taken by the government cannot be made public as there were lives of kidnapped persons at stake. Mohammed intervened after the Minister of Defence, retired Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi, was asked to provide information on the train attack of Monday, March 28, 2022, in which eight persons were confirmed killed.At least 26 others were injured in the attack.“What is happening now is that there is a kind of an unholy handshake between bandits and Boko Haram insurgents. Preliminary reports of what transpired at the Kaduna train attacks show that there is a kind of collaboration between the bandits and the dislodged Boko Haram terrorists from the northeast. I can tell you very confidently that the Federal Government is on the top of this matter,” the information and culture minister said. The defence minister, in his earlier response to the question, said: “Honestly, I think the security chiefs are working hard to unveil those that are involved, and we will tell you very soon those that are carrying out these attacks.“Both Jos and Kaduna, we will come and explain to the public what is really going on and our efforts to ensure that all these activities are stopped once and for all. We are really on top of the situation, we are planning hard and we will get it out as soon as possible.”On what the government was doing following the 72-hour ultimatum given by the families of the victims of the train attack, Mohammed said, “I think the Honorable Minister of Defence has already addressed the issues. One, that what the federal government is doing won’t be the subject matter of a press conference, because we have lives at stake. “And that the various arms of security are working night and day to unravel the mystery surrounding the kidnap, the attack as a whole, the kidnapped people. What I can assure you is that you get the respective arms of government actually engaged as we speak, in getting those, you know, victims released. It’s natural for anybody who is a father or a mother of a kidnap person to be worried and to be concerned. “But at the level of government, we appreciate that and we are leaving no stone unturned, but we’ll give you specific steps we’re taking. I think it will be counterproductive and not going to aid or help those who are kidnapped or help, you know, the security forces who are tracing and ensuring that there’ll be no repeat of such attacks.” The attack and abduction, which occurred on March 28, have continued to elicit concerns over the degeneration in the level of insecurity under President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) had confirmed eight deaths, while many persons were declared missing.