Some new personnel of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency have said they have not been paid their salaries and allowances since they joined the agency seven months ago.  The personnel noted that after the assurances by the agency that the delayed payment, which was caused by the Integrated Personnel Payroll information System, would be rectified before the end of February 2022, they had yet to get a dime since joining the agency.  One of the officers, who pleaded anonymity, said he was tired of the situation.  He said, “How do you explain not earning one naira from your place of work since you joined seven months ago. They are saying it is not from the agency but we work for the agency and they should try and consider us. We have families, we have bills to pay. I am personally tired of the whole thing.”  Another operative, who also asked not to be named, urged the agency to rectify the issue.  He said, “When you finish training, you are supposed to be paid training allowance immediately, which most times amounts to six months. Some of us have not been paid.  “I am not the only one affected. People affected are tired and not motivated to carry on with their daily activities. I have been borrowing to sustain myself and my family.  “Just imagine, seven months after recruitment I have not been paid. They told us through a circular our arrears would be paid February ending that the issue was caused by IPPIS. Has February not ended? We are yet to get our money.”  But in a memo signed by the Director, Finance and Accounts, Shitu Abdullahi, and dated April 6, the agency said only 56 newly recruited personnel were being owed, adding that the issue would soon be resolved.  It read, “You may be aware that almost all officers and men (newly recruited) have gotten IPPIS number in March 2022. i.e., they have been payrolled.  “Issues arose for nonpayment which was previously communicated as a result of non-update of accounts and a few with wrong account details which were corrected in March 2022.  “In February 2022 when salary was paid, those whose accounts were not updated were unable to get salary as the transaction failed due to non-update of the accounts as at that period.  “A total of 59 officers and men (not created and migration) were not paid since January – March 2022 due to non-creation and proper migration by IPPIS. This is as a result of bad fingerprint during capturing and technical issues from Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation – IPPIS Department. The issue is presently on the desk of IPPIS. We hope this will be rectified very soon.”  Abdullahi, however, told the newly recruited personnel not to expect salary arrears from July 2021.  He added, “Be informed that the date of first appointment as of July 25, 2021, on the appointment letter is the date for kickstarting of training at the agency academy used for all those recruited in 2021.  “It is not the date when payment of salary takes effect. Accordingly, newly recruited personnel agitating salary arrears from July 2021 should not expect any arrears from July 2021.”