The Lagos State Police Command has commenced investigation into the case of sexual abuse of a 10-year-old primary six pupil of Chrisland Schools at Victoria Garden City, Lagos State. According to a report by Punch, all parties involved in the case are expected to appear at the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti on Tuesday (today).  The Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said, “All the parties involved have been invited to the State Criminal Investigation Department Panti today to give a written statement and further questioning will be done.” The parties involved include the school’s head teacher, G.I. Azike; and the parents of the female pupil (name withheld) who alleged that their daughter was sexually abused during the school’s participation in the World School Games at Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Recall that over the weekend, the alleged sex video of some students of the school surfaced online. The mother of the female pupil involved had come online to seek the help of Nigerians as she alleged that her daughter was drugged by the male students and forced to engage in the sexual act.



See Also






News
My Daughter Was Threatened By Chrisland School Not To Speak Up, Says Mother Of 10-year-old Pupil Allegedly Raped By Classmates
0 Comments
1 Day Ago She further alleged that the school conducted a pregnancy test on her daughter without her (the mother's) consent. She also claimed the video of the rape incident had been shared multiple times on social media. She said she was not aware of what happened in Dubai till another parent showed her the video of the incident. However, in a statement released by Akin Fadeyi, a member of the Advisory board of the school, the school authorities denied claims that it conducted a pregnancy test on the girl. According to the school, only a COVID-19 test was conducted on all the students who embarked on the trip to Dubai. The school also said out of the 77 students who represented the school at the event, only six were involved in the misconduct. It said they were involved in a Truth or Dare game which led to the condemnable act. Also, reacting to allegations of negligence on their part, the school said while in Dubai, it ensured the students were kept in separate rooms, seven floors apart. It said boys were on the 4th floor of the hotel while the girls were lodged on the 11th floor. The school said none of the students on its watch was raped. It mentioned some centres where the COVID19 tests were carried out on the students and asked people to confirm their claims. 