Some Nigerians on social media have reacted to the official declaration by the Vice President of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo to join the presidential race for 2023. Osinbajo in an early morning broadcast on Monday revealed that he will be contesting for the exalted position on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo It had been widely rumoured for months that the Vice President was harbouring ambitions to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. During his declaration speech, he made many promises to Nigerians, which he said he would fulfil if allowed to lead the country. Osinbajo added that his decision to join the presidential race is to contribute his quota to the development of the country. Following the development, some Nigerians on Twitter lambasted the Vice President. They also mocked him for being a puppet in the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Below are some comments:  He said he has listen to the yarning of the people, but calling Buhari a true Nigeria patriot is somehow.He said he wants to complete what they started!! Complete the reform of the justice system.  His oratory prowess in the 6:56 minutes ✅ but he is serving under Buhari 😭 https://t.co/GxkS9fx7oQ I don’t know whether to laugh or cuss out, cos the ironic part of this clip is how he highlighted almost all the disasters in the country to somehow use as a campaign manifesto like his tenure aren’t the ones behind it. Afflictions shall never rise a second time. Osinbajo u failed to meet Nigerians expectations as a VP in more ways than one, ur all-round performance speaks volumes about ur !nability to effectively rule; Furthermore, ur credibility remains questionab!e since u still dine with this present govt. U a!n't a man of the people. The SW voted for Buhari bcos of you. We didn’t trust him but we trusted you that you will be the conscience of his administration, but look at how both of you turned out - disaster! It’s your right to run but by the grace of God, you’re only running back to your house. You have been on seat for 7 years and you couldn't solve this countries problem. How then do you want the masses to give you another term again? To do what exactly? You have the power at hand now but can't use it. Mister Oga sir please be sincere to yourself you can't help again "I have served with a true Nigerian Patriot"... How can someone lie that Buhari is a patriot??? pic.twitter.com/Oc0UMiS7Fi Loll all of a sudden your hands are no longer tied. Oga focus on RCCG as junior pastor because the evil you and Buhari did is enough for a life time... See him mentioning the problems of Nigeria like he was never part of the team ruling it for the past 8 years.He mentioned reforming the educational sector while at present ASUU is on strike and he's doing nothing about it.Mentioned lifting 100million Nigerians out of poverty .. What happened to Nigeria's Economy under ur watch? U're in charge of Tradermoney that went the drained. U've been to many places as an excursionist & nothing more! Governing a Nation is more huge than Oratory prowess. An experimental process that this Nation can't afford. 