The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has begun the screening of its presidential aspirants in Abuja. SaharaReporters learnt that the screening was still ongoing as of the time of filing this report. It was learnt that the screening committee had already screened former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Anyim Pius Anyim. Other aspirants to be screened include the Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed; Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal; and Media businessman, Dele Momodu. Others are Oliver Tariela Diana; Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike; Sam Ohuabunwa; Emmanuel Udom; former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi; former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose; Charles Okwudili; Chikwendu Kalu; and Ndukwe Cosmos. SaharaReporters on Thursday reported that the party had released the list of presidential aspirants to be screened today (Friday). The last day for the submission of already completed forms was April 25 and the date for the screening of presidential aspirants had been fixed for April 29. The list obtained by SaharaReporters on Thursday included the following names: former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President Bukola Saraki; former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim; Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed; Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal; and Media businessman, Dele Momodu. Others are Oliver Tariela Diana; Nwachukwu Amakwenze; Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike; Sam Ohuabunwa; Emmanuel Udom; former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi; former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose; Charles Okwudili; Chikwendu Kalu; and Ndukwe Cosmos. A statement by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, in Abuja last Thursday had given new dates for the screening of aspirants for various offices. The PDP had fixed its presidential nomination form and expression of interest forms N40 million, governorship N21 million, Senate N3.5 million, House of Representatives N2.5 million and State House of Assembly N600,000. Mr Ologunagba said after thorough consideration of various issues and concerns in the party, the PDP extended the closing dates for the purchase of expression of interest and nomination forms to Friday.