The Nigerian Railway Corporation has confirmed the abduction of seven railway workers and the death of one female worker during the bombing of the Abuja-Kaduna passenger train. The NRC workers had earlier expressed anger at the management for its perceived silence on the fate of seven railway workers who were kidnapped during the attack and a female worker who lost her life during the attack.  However, NRC in its daily situation update released on Monday night, signed by its Managing Director, Engineer Fidet Okhiria, included the seven kidnapped workers and also confirmed the death of one of the workers onboard the train. The update which was the sixth update of situation report on the Abuja-Kaduna train bombing noted that 191 persons on the manifest are now confirmed safe and at their various homes (Additional 5 persons confirmed safe today). “The latest report on the incident of the ill-fated AK9 train of Monday 28th March 2022 is as follow: “One Coach (SP 00020) was re-railed and safely moved to Rigasa Station. This brings the total number of recovered Coaches safely moved to NRC Stations to eight. “Intensive track repair works continued on site to enable the recovery of the remaining Coaches and Locomotives. On the status of 362 validated passengers on board, 191 persons on the manifest are now confirmed safe and at their various homes (Additional 5 persons confirmed safe today). “46 phone numbers on the manifest are still either switched off or not reachable since Tuesday morning. 33 phone numbers on the manifest are ringing but still no response from the other end. 62 phone numbers on the manifest, when called, responded non-existent. 22 persons are reported missing by their relatives. Eight persons are confirmed dead. “On the crew of the train, there were a total of 20 number of Train Crew on board. “Seven were NRC staff. Out of the seven NRC staff, five are okay while two are missing. Another 10 workers were Janitors onboard the train. Out of the 10 Janitors, six are okay, three are missing and one is dead. There were also three number of Caterers onboard the train. Out of the three Caterers, one is okay and two are missing. “NRC remains committed to the safety of her Passengers and Staff on board the ill-fated Ak-9 train service. The Corporation will continue to collaborate with security agencies to ensure all persons being held are rescued unhurt and reunited with their families. “Our heart goes out to those who lost loved ones and those injured in the attack and now recuperating from the hospital. The Corporation remains appreciative of all the support and cooperation received so far from the security agencies at this challenging times.”