A 15-member Truth, Justice and Peace Commission has been inaugurated by the Anambra Governor Charles Soludo, to stop the activities of the indigenous people of Biafra (IPOB). The committee is headed by human rights activist, Prof Chidi Odinkalu with Ambassador Bianca Ojukwu as Secretary.  Other members of the committee are Mr Charles Oputa (Charley boy); music icon Onyeka Onwenu; Dr. Joe Nwaorgu; Dr. Udenta Udenta; Dr. Uju Agomoh; Rev. Fr (Msgnr); Jerome Madueke and Canon Dr. Okechukwu C. Obi-Okoye Also in the committee are Dr. John Out; Mr. Ngozi Odumuko; Dr. Joe Abah, Mr. Chukwuma Okpalaezeukwu; Mr. Sam Egwuatu and Prof. Joseph Ikechebelu. The Secretary to the Anambra State Government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu, made this known on Wednesday in a statement. He noted that the terms of Reference for the Committee are to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the South-East since 1999. He explained that the committee would seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts, for the healing of the victims of the violence, accounting for responsibility and accountability of the actors, conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators, restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for the overall aim of restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the State, and the region/Nigeria. According to the statement, the committee has a six-month timeline to conclude the assignment from the date of inauguration. The statement reads in part, “The purpose of the Committee on Truth, Justice, and Peace is to seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts, for the healing of the victims of the violence. “Accounting for responsibility and accountability of the actors, conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators, restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for the overall aim of restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the State, and the region/Nigeria. “Terms of Reference for the Committee are: to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the South East since 1999. “Document victims/circumstances of death, brutality and incarceration, identify stakeholders and groups who have played critical roles in the agitations and conflicts, their roles, capabilities and demands. “Address any other issue(s) that may be germane to unravelling the extent of the crisis and charting the roadmap for the future and make recommendations for sustainable peace and security in Anambra State/South-East. "The committee will have a direct reporting line to the Governor, will be provided with administrative support to perform its duties, and will conclude its work no later than six months from its inauguration," Chukwulobelu added.