The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, is yet to take definite action on the report exonerating two ex-policemen attached to the Kwara Police Command illegally sacked for rejecting N8million bribe. SaharaReporters gathered that the two ex-officers, Babatunde Glorious and Shola Akawo, were unjustly detained, tortured and later dismissed from the force for refusing to compromise on an armed robbery case. Inspector-General of Police (IGP) In a trending video, they accused senior officers of the Kwara State Police Command of allegedly compromising in a robbery case. According to them, one ACP Jeftta, ACP Oyeleye Adegboyega and others connived, conspired and made sure they were dismissed from service. Sources said Baba set up a Special Investigation Panel to carry out a discreet and transparent investigation into the matter after a video of the two ex-officers went viral in December 2021. However, three months after the report of the investigation was submitted to the police boss, he is yet to take any definite action. “Hope you remembered the two ex-officers that were sacked for rejecting N8million bribe to compromise the armed robbery case, the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba has refused to act on the case despite a panel exonerating these fine officers. “A video published by The PUNCH newspaper actually drew the attention of Nigerians and that of Nigeria Police Force which made the IGP to give a standing order that the case should be investigated. “They were invited by the Inspector General of Police to Abuja for the case to be investigated, they were thoroughly investigated and fact and evidence were presented. They were told that they didn't commit any offence, to the extent that the head of police team gave them feeding money for some days. “The investigation had been concluded for months now and the report sent to Inspector-General of Police but up till this present moment, those innocent officers are yet to hear anything from the police authorities. “Is it that all the senior police officers indicted can't be touched or what? These guys have families and are suffering seriously. That case is deep and more than how people figure it. Those guys acted differently because of the fear of God. So sad, the IGP should pity these young guys,” a police source familiar with the incident told SaharaReporters on Tuesday.