The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has vowed to reveal the identities of those sponsoring the activities of unknown gunmen who have been terrorising the South-East.  This was disclosed on Friday by the spokesman of the separatist group, Emma Powerful, who said that IPOB and its militant wing, the Eastern Security Network (ESN), are not behind the activities of unknown gunmen in the region. File photo used to illustrate story. He described the killings carried out by the gunmen as unacceptable, adding that the atrocities are perpetrated more in areas where politicians are fighting. The statement reads in part, “We the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra under the command and leadership of our great leader, Nnamdi Kanu wish to reiterate once again to Biafrans, friends of Biafra, and lovers of freedom, that IPOB has to hands in the criminality and insecurity being perpetrated in Biafra territory by imported hoodlums, dissidents and wicked politicians. Those behind this barbarity are not IPOB members or ESN operatives.  “These atrocities are witnessed more in the region where politicians fight themselves for selfish reasons.  “Our mothers were raped by these vampires created and sponsored by politicians in Imo State to terrorize our people and implicate IPOB and ESN members.  “The insecurity and killing of our innocent citizens are unacceptable by IPOB worldwide and we must bring down those behind these devilish activities. We are urging the governors and other politicians to join hands with IPOB under Kanu to stop the unnecessary waste of lives in our region and stop the rising waste of lives in our territory because it might turn against you tomorrow.  “Never think that you are free because if you continue sponsoring these criminals, we will mention your name in the near future and IPOB will start pursuing you because many of you have sponsored the death of our people.  “IPOB is not part of the unknown gunmen or those criminals suffering our people. Stop sponsoring the untimely death of innocent folks.”