At least one person was killed while two others were injured when policemen opened fire on members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), popularly known as Shiites during a protest.The protesters were demanding the release of the passport of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, in Zaria, Kaduna State, on Sunday. The victim known as Yusuf was said to have been hit in the abdomen by a bullet and died on the spot. Two other members of the group sustained bullet wounds and are currently battling for their lives in hospital. An eyewitness, who spoke with SaharaReporters, disclosed that the IMN members were peacefully going about their protest when policemen emerged all of a sudden and began firing live bullets at them. He said that the defiant Shiites stood their ground despite the danger they came under, demanding that the passport of their leader must be released in order for him to seek urgent medical care abroad. “Policemen opened fire on Shiites in Zaria on Sunday during a protest calling for the release of the passport of their leader, Sheikh El-Zakzaky, so that he can go abroad for medical treatment. “The law enforcement agents came in large numbers and immediately started firing live bullets at the protesters who were peaceful in their conduct, killing one person and leaving some others injured. “The situation created tension in the city on Sunday as residents were afraid that the issue could escalate further,” he said.President, Media Forum of IMN, Ibrahim Musa, who confirmed the incident to SaharaReporters on Monday, disclosed that the victim had been buried in accordance with Islamic tenets. He said, “It was an unprovoked attack on our members. They were only asking for the release of the Sheikh’s passport so that he can go for medical treatment abroad. “His health has been on a decline for a while now and he needs urgent medical attention. This is what our people were demanding when they were attacked.” El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat, were in July 2021 acquitted and discharged by the Kaduna State High Court after spending almost six years in detention. They faced eight counts bordering on alleged culpable homicide, unlawful assembly, and disruption of the public peace, among others after IMN supporters clashed with soldiers in Zaria in 2015. However, the couple has been denied their passports since their release, depriving them of the chance to attend to their failing health. But the spokesperson for the police in Kaduna, Mohammed Jalige, did not respond to calls and a text message sent by SaharaReporters, seeking clarification on the issue.