The People's Alternative Political Movement has written to the Minister of Finance and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, to request information on the N3trillion approved by the Federal Executive Council for fuel subsidy in 2022. The Nigerian Government had on Monday suspended its plan to remove fuel subsidy. Zainab Ahmed Ahmed said about N3trillion would now be required to continue paying for the subsidy. In the Freedom of Information request sent to the minister, TPAP-M asked for information on the details of NNPC’s assessment that the country was consuming 65.7 million litres per day whereas the Directorate of Petroleum Resources claimed that the consumption of fuel was 38.2 million litres per day. “We are Nigerian citizens and interim leaders of The People's Alternative Political Movement. We have confirmed that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation has requested the sum of N3,000,000,000,000.00 as fuel subsidy for 2022,” the letter jointly signed by Omotoye Olorode and Jaye Gaskia read. “Having accepted the claim of the NNPC, you have sought the approval of the Federal Executive Council for the said sum of N3trillion. In justifying the figure you disclosed to media representatives at the State House yesterday that "What this means is that we have to make incremental provision of N2.557trillion to be able to meet subsidy requirement which is averaging about N270billion per month". “Since the sum of N443billion was presently allocated for fuel subsidy from January till June 2022, we are compelled to request you to furnish us with information on the budget of N2,557,000,000,000.00 as fuel subsidy from July to December 2022. “Furthermore, we request for information on the details of the NNPC’s assessment that the country is consuming 65.7 million litres per day whereas the Directorate of Petroleum Resources has insisted that the consumption of fuel is 38.2 million litres per day. As this request is anchored on the Freedom of Information Act 2011 you are required to accede to our request within seven days of the receipt of this letter. “Take notice that if you fail or refuse to furnish us with the requested information we shall not hesitate to pray the Federal High Court to compel you to furnish us with the requested information,” the letter added.