The Nigerian Army has disclosed that poor road networks, communication infrastructure and the vastness of the affected communities were responsible for the attacks in Zamfara and Niger states. The army asserted that the roads in those areas were very poor and the communication infrastructure is also poor. File photo used to illustrate story. It added that it takes two to three days before they get information on the havoc wreaked by terrorists. The was made known by Army Director of Defence Information, Major General Jimmy Akpor, noting that military had taken this into perspective, adding that it had deployed troops to address the situation. Akpor affirmed that the whole of the South-East will be swallowed by Niger State if put inside. Stressing that the large expanse of land in Niger State is not something that can easily block and neutralise. He said, “The military has appropriately deployed troops to deal with the situation on the ground but you must understand these areas are vast. If you put the whole of the South-East inside Niger State, it would swallow it. When they tell you they moved from a place and went to cause havoc at another, if you don’t know how large this expanse of land is you would think it is something you can easily block and neutralise them. “Also, the roads in these areas are very poor, and the communication infrastructure is also poor. Before we get information on the havoc wreaked by these terrorists, it takes two to three days. The road infrastructure to respond is terrible. We have taken everything into perspective and we are working very hard to ensure that no Nigerian suffers undue threat to life and properties. “A lot is happening in these states. That is why the heat is on them and they are running from their comfort zone. It means they would not have food and resources wherever they are running to. Therefore, they would pounce on villages along the way. It is unfortunate; we are carrying out a pursuit on them. Very soon, even the forests would not be a safe haven for the.“ At least nine people were killed and several others displaced when bandits on Sunday night attacked communities in the Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Communities under Tsafe (in Zamfara) and Faskari (in Katsina State) are being terrorised by Adamu Aleru, a notorious banditry kingpin in the Tsafe forest. A resident of Tsafe town, Salisu Sabo said the villages attacked on Sunday night include Magazawa, Kajera, Unguwar Dan Halima, Unguwar Rogo, Unguwar Ango, Kurar Mota and Kauyen Kane all under Bilbis district. “They conducted simultaneous operations, but the deadliest was in Magazawa village where seven people were killed. The bodies were discovered in the morning of Monday. In other villages, we have not heard of any killing, but most residents of the communities have fled to Tsafe town. I saw over 50 women coming into Tsafe this morning,” he said. 