Nigerians on social media have reacted to a poster with the inscription “GEJ Is Coming Back” which suggests the ambition of former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest for presidency in the 2023 elections. The poster done by a faceless group known as the National Agenda for Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. It claimed it aimed for a better Nigeria come 2023.  However, this has been greeted with mixed reactions from citizens with many condemning Jonathan’s ambition. This was even after the Instagram blog, mufasatundeednut, queried if Nigeria was going backwards or forward. In her reaction, popular actress, Nkechi Blessing said she would vote for Jonathan if he chooses to run. She wrote, “I will over vote for him sef.” Another Instagram user, @popcorrnn._ wrote, “Yesss oh, he should please come back. He had a far better government than Buhari, & it took for him to go for us to realize it, he should please come back.” For @_james_oluwa, it is better to vote for Jonathan than any other candidate. He wrote, “It’s better to vote for him than any other candidate!! The Angel you know before is better than the one u just meet.” However, others have shown a contrary opinion saying the former President would simply dent his image if he ran for the presidency again. One of such users is @icobenson who said, “He will fail woefully, he didn’t maximize the opportunity given to him initially, so what does he have to offer this time absolutely NOTHING we need a fresh start. Soro Soke.” shoes_by_shem opined: “This would be the most foolish move for him.” Another user el_patron_wanz stated, “Dem wan package backwardness make e be like forwardness give us.” kunle_real stated: “We're perambulating.” comedianslimm01 said: “Can we pls stop....must everyone go and come back again.” koin_zino Omo.. this man should just remain where he is before them go spoil his name. rasheedahhhh said: “I see someone write "best of all"...suffer no dey tire you? Do people just follow these politicians blindly? Arrgh!” iron_syd noted: “We saw this coming with his romance with the North and APC...they've left Tinubu behind.”