The corpse of a woman has reportedly gone missing from a mortuary in Ebonyi State, leaving family members stunned. The relatives of the missing corpse said burial could not hold as scheduled due to the disappearance of the corpse.  It was learnt that the remains of the late Madam Grace Orjiokoro was deposited at the General Hospital Mortuary, Owutu Edda in Afikpo South Local Government Area of the state after she died in the hospital. The woman died on July 2, 2021 at the age of 82. The family visited the mortuary on December 28 to take the corpse for burial but realised it was no longer there. People had converged at the deceased’s compound for the ceremony when they were informed that the corpse was missing at the mortuary. Fred Okoro, a brother of the deceased, said family members went to collect the remains of their sister on the burial day only to discover that a different corpse was kept in the morgue for them. He said, “The corpse presented to us was not ours because my sister is tall, about 6ft tall and we discovered that the person was short. “Not only that, my sister plaited hair that fell down on her shoulder at the time of death but this one has a low cut hair.” A daughter of the deceased, who is a naval officer, Welsie Okoro, also described the development as unbelievable. She noted when they dragged the morticians to Owutu Police Station, they claimed that they mistakenly handed her mother’s corpse to another family for burial. “And even the mortuary attendant Mr Felix said one of his colleagues said he knows the person he gave my mother’s corpse to,” she said. Pastor Okoro said he suspected foul play as those alleged to have mistaken his sister’s corpse for theirs had refuted the allegation. “It was discovered that those people deposited the body in May whereas my sister was deposited in July 2nd,” he said. Manager of the mortuary, Mr Vincent Ude, said he was doing everything possible to recover the corpse. “Investigations are still on now, I am sure we are going to recover the corpse,” he said.