Many residents have abandoned their communities as Boko Haram terrorists attacked Pemi area in the Chibok Local Government Area of Borno State on Thursday night. A local guard in the area disclosed this, saying the villagers had fled their homes. SaharaReporters Media Reports revealed the marauders were still in the communities around 7am this morning, being Friday. “They came around 7:00pm and attacked Pemi village, which is some 15 kilometres away from Chibok town. They came through a nearby bush and started shooting in different directions immediately they arrived. “Many ran into the bushes; some are in Chibok town now.” the source said. Boko Haram terrorists had become daring in recent weeks and months. SaharaReporters exclusively reported on Thursday that travellers in some communities in Borno State were now being forced by the militants to pay taxes. Military sources had told SaharaReporters that the terrorists mounted roadblocks in the Gubio Local Government Area on Wednesday, issuing tax receipts to travellers. SaharaReporters had gathered that defaulters were forced by the insurgents to pay while the mobile phones of those who didn’t have money were seized. “They took over different roads yesterday forcing people to pay taxes to them. They all came on motorcycles,” a source had said. This came after SaharaReporters published tax receipts issued by the terror group to farmers and herdsman in some North-East states. The receipts were issued to residents of some farming communities in Borno State under the control of the group after collection of levies and taxes from them. SaharaReporters had in several reports in 2021 reported how the insurgents had been taxing residents of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe State. Sources said failure of the residents to comply with the directive attracts the death penalty. SaharaReporters also reported how ISWAP established two Wilaya’s (Caliphates) at Lake Chad and Sambisa forest to sustain its war against countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. According to sources, the terrorist group lifted the ban imposed on fishing and farming activities in the Lake Chad area, three years after chasing people out of for allegedly spying for Nigerian troops. 