A traditional ruler abducted in Plateau State, Da Gyang Balak, has reportedly been rescued by troops of Operation Safe Haven of the Nigerian Army. Balak is the paramount ruler of Vwang District in Jos South Local Government Area.  He was abducted on Sunday night while driving home along the road close to the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies in the locality. The abducted monarch was freed on Monday night, it was learnt. The Military Information Officer of Operation Safe Haven, Major Ishaku Takwa, who confirmed the release of the traditional ruler in a statement on Tuesday stated that, “Immediately the incidence was reported, the commander Operation SAFE HAVEN Major General Ibrahim Ali placed the troops of Sector 6 deployed at Riyom on red alert and to embark on hot trail of the perpetrators. “Consequently, the troops in conjunction with other security agencies, Vigilante group and Hunters conducted clearance operations in the mountainous region of Sabon Gida Kanal, Gero and Dahol general area. Two suspects were arrested at an abandoned building during the operation. “This development led to the release of the paramount ruler by his abductors. He has been united with his family. “While commending the troops for their swift response, the commander operation SAFE HAVEN, Maj Gen Ibrahim Ali, appreciate the efforts of the Vigilante, the Hunters group and all who provided useful information to security agencies during the operation. He further urged the law abiding citizens to be security conscious and always observe and report any suspicious movement of persons in their area. “This development led to the release of the paramount ruler by his abductors. He has been united with his family. “While commending the troops for their swift response, the commander operation SAFE HAVEN, Maj Gen Ibrahim Ali, appreciate the efforts of the Vigilante, the Hunters group and all who provided useful information to security agencies during the operation. He further urged the law abiding citizens to be security conscious and always observe and report any suspicious movement of persons in their area."