The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency has arrested three trans-border drug traffickers while trying to smuggle 48,000 tablets of 225mg Tramadol through Mubi, Adamawa State to Cameroon Republic. The suspects identified as Mohammed Hussaini, 32; Adamu Bella,18, and Mohammed Umar,18, were arrested at Tsamiya Junction, Madanya Road, Mubi, Adamawa State, on Friday with the exhibits concealed in the packets of another drug.  This was made known in a statement on Sunday by NDLEA Director, Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi. The agency also intercepted over 1,500 kilograms of imported 'loud' and other illicit substances in raids across Lagos and Edo states. NDLEA said the suspects claimed that the drugs were being taken to Bagira town along Nigeria-Cameroon border to be delivered to some Cameroonians. Açcording to the statement, there was a similar operation at Alaba Rago area of Lagos where operatives of the state command of the agency intercepted 1,200 parcels of imported loud, a strong variant of Cannabis suspected to have been smuggled into the state from a neighbouring country with a total weight of 1,229 kilograms. However, Babafemi affirmed that Lagos operatives arrested one Ibrahim Musa, 25, with 18,530 tablets of Tramadol, Rohynol, Diazepam, Exol-5, and 138 bottles of Codeine, in another raid on Wednesday at Suru Alaba, Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA. He said, "At the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, operatives at the SAHCO export shed of the airport during their routine cargo search intercepted a consignment of 22 international passports of six different countries concealed in a bag of Gari among other food items. "Nine of the passports were three each of UK, France and Portugal, while the rest were: Nigeria -8; Ghana -4 and Cameroon -1. Also at the airport, operatives equally recovered 12 parcels of Cannabis weighing 4.95kg concealed in a carton of Golden Morn packaged for export through the SAHCO export shed. "In Plateau State, a team of NDLEA officers on Friday arrested two suspects; Emeka Ezenwa, 37, and Julius Akingbe, 45, for being in possession of 126.5grams of methamphetamine concealed inside a DVD player coming from Lagos, while a raid in Kampani Zera-Wase LGA of the state on Friday led to the arrest of Fatima Sadiq, 20, who was caught with 21.3kg cannabis. "A similar raid on Friday of a notorious drug joint, Bakin Kogi Ringim, Jigawa State, led to the recovery of different quantities of Cannabis, Diazepam, Exol-5 and some new psychoactive substances with a total weight of 8.680kg as well as weapons such as knives, cutlasses, Gora sticks, catapults and charms. "In Edo State, operatives recovered 19 bags of Cannabis weighing 144.10kg stored in the bush along Uromi Road, Esan North East LGA ready to be transported to other parts of the country, while eight bags of the same substance weighing 111kg were recovered from a bush at Iruekpen, Esan West LGA." Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd), commended the officers and men of Lagos, MMIA, Adamawa, Plateau and Edo commands of the agency for their tenacity and vigilance. He charged them along with their colleagues across the country not to relent until the last gram of illicit drug was recovered from every part of Nigeria.