Authorities of Federal Polytechnic, Nekede, Imo State, have banned students from bringing cars to the school campus. The school raised concerns on the use of vehicles by students and their flamboyant display of wealth on campus.  This was contained in a circular dated January 29, 2022 and signed by B .O Dara for the Registrar, advising students using vehicles to stop at the gate. It reads “Management at its emergency management meeting deliberated on the use of vehicles by students and their flamboyant display of wealth on campus. “After thorough deliberation, management therefore directed that students are hereby banned from driving their vehicles into the campus. “Only staff are allowed to drive into the campus as the staff would be identified by presentation of their ID card. “The staff who have lost their ID card should obtain a letter of identification from the Registrar. The letter of identification must bear the staff’s passport photograph. “All students must always have their identity cards with them while on the school’s campus,” the circular added. On March 14, 2021 SaharaReporters reported that the management of the Federal Polytechnic, Auchi, Edo State, banned students from driving private cars on campus. The school said the measure followed “intelligence reports” received by the institution’s management. In April, the Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo State banned the use of cars and power bikes by students of the institution on campus. In a circular dated Thursday, April 15, 2021, the school's management stated that this was necessary to safeguard the lives of students and staff from students who drive with ‘reckless abandon’. The circular, signed by the registrar of the institution, O. O. Fakorede, noted that the school's management had received complaints from both students and staff of the institution hence the ban. The management of Delta State Polytechnic, Ogwashi-Uku, had also banned students from driving cars within the school premises. According to a banner shared on social media, students' cars are banned from entry due to security reasons.