Founder of the Niger Delta Volunteer Force, Mujahid Asari-Dokubo, has again tackled the Indigenous People of Biafra and its leader, Nnamdi Kanu. Asari-Dokubo faulted IPOB for saying he was behind the reported extradition of its leader from Kenya.  Both Asari-Dokubo and Kanu have been at the forefront of the struggle for the actualisation of Biafra. The pair started on a relatively good note but along the line they turned into enemies despite pushing for the same course. Amid the ensuing face-off, some prominent figures formerly loyal to Kanu have switched camp for Dokubo's Biafra Customary Government . For instance, Kanu’s former deputy, Uche Mefor, is now BCG’s Head of Information and Communication. In October 2020, Asari-Dokubo claimed that the IPOB leader had derailed the Biafran struggle. He claimed with Kanu there’s no hope for Biafra, stressing that he was not representing the interest of other tribes under Biafra. In one of their landmark altercations, Asari-Dokubo in June 2020 challenged Kanu to swear if he had not been collecting money from governors and Igbo businessmen in the name of IPOB. Responding, Kanu accused the former Niger Delta militant of collecting N20million from him in 2016, adding that the money belonged to IPOB and challenged Asari-Dokubo to swear on the Quran to deny the allegation. At a time, Asari-Dokubo vowed that nothing could make him ever work with the IPOB leader on the Biafran project again, alleging that he was promoting ‘religious intolerance against non-followers of Judaism,’ a religion Kanu has insisted is the religion of Igbo people. Speaking on Sunday during a Facebook live, Asari-Dokubo said, “IPOB said I was the one that sold them out, that I betrayed them, am not the one who said it. They are also the one that said I betrayed their leader in Kenya. “I don’t know where Nnmadi Kanu was living, I don’t know where he took off for. They said I was the person who gave him up. I now said I was the person, the next thing they said was Asari Dokubo was the person. Look at these idiots, what are you going to do to me?” He further carpeted the group for being responsible for the constant closure of business in the South-East region as a result of the sit-at-home order. He said, “IPOB was presented as a platform for reconciliation, but today it is not fighting for Biafra. Today, schools, businesses have been closed down. If people sit at home, it is their choice that they are afraid of you people, it is not because you people are powerful. They don’t know you people are nothing. “People are afraid of being killed that’s why they’ve continued to sit at home, not because they love Nnmadi Kanu. If there is adequate security by the government, why is there no sit-at-home in Port Harcourt? Calabar? Uyo? It is because the government of these places are saying don’t ever come here. “Very soon Igbos will come out and say it is okay. Our old women are starving they can’t go to the farm, markets. At Onitsha market, people are afraid of doing businesses because they are scared of being killed.”