The Police Service Commission has directed the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to conduct fresh investigations into the link between the suspended head of the Intelligence Response Team, Abba Kyari, and an internet fraudster, Abbas Ramon, commonly known as Hushpuppi. It was gathered that the commission, directed the IGP to submit a report within two weeks which would be examined by the PSC Standing Committee on Discipline, Punch reports.  The directive to the IG was sequel to the advice from the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. A four-man Special Investigation Panel headed by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of the Force Criminal Investigations Department, Joseph Egbunike, had earlier probed Kyari, a Deputy Commissioner of Police, but the probe was deemed to be shallow and not water-tight. Kyari had been suspended in July 2021 for alleged involvement in a $1.1million Internet fraud allegedly perpetrated by Hushpuppi and four others; AbdulRahman Juma (Abdul); Vincent Chibuzo (Kelly); Rukayat Fashola (Morayo); and Bolatito Agbabiaka (Bolamide). The Federal Bureau of Investigation had alleged that Hushpuppi paid $20,600 to two bank accounts allegedly provided by Kyari on January 20, 2020. However, Kyari denied all the allegations of wrongdoing brought against him. It was gathered on Wednesday that the AGF said the facts contained in the police investigation report were not strong enough to convict the DCP. Malami was said to have informed the commission that the police investigation on Kyari was not water-tight and that more facts were needed to establish the relationship between the ex-IRT commander and Hushpuppi, who is awaiting sentencing after striking a plea bargain deal with the US authorities. Based on the AGF’s advice, the commission was said to have asked the IG to carry out a further probe into Kyari’s relationship with Hushpuppi. A senior official stated, “The advice from the AGF is that the case needs further investigation; that the evidence produced on Abba Kyari was not enough to convict him despite the fact that they have established a prima facie case against him. But the facts cannot convict him in the court of law. “So, the police report was returned and the IG was asked to set up a special panel to look at the case. We have given them just a short period of two weeks to turn in their report. “The final report is expected to return to the standing committee which will review and send recommendations to the plenary where the final decision on Kyari will be taken.” SaharaReporters earlier reported that the spokesman, US Attorney Office for Central District of California, Thom Mrozek, confirmed that Hushpuppi would be sentenced on February 14. 