A member of the National Youth Service Corps attached to the Asamabiri Community Primary School in Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, Jonathan Ogbe, has abandoned his one-year compulsory national service after being accused of defiling a 12-year-old pupil.  The accused corps member has since refused to pick up his discharge certificate to avoid being arrested and handed over to the police for possible prosecution. File photo used to illustrate story. Spokesperson for the NYSC in Bayelsa, Mathew Ngobua, confirmed that Ogbe had absconded after news of the incident came to light.  He said “The accused has abandoned service and all his numbers and that of his next of kin are not reachable. He has not even picked up his discharge certificate for service.”  According to father of the victim, Nelson Gbaranbiri, his wife brought his attention to some strange discharge found in the underwear of his 12-year-old daughter while doing her laundry.  He said, “My wife brought my attention to the stains and discharges she usually finds in the pants of my daughter. When I asked about what happened to her private part, she told me that ‘uncle’ will beat her.”  In a petition forwarded to the Commissioner of Police in the state and dated September 3, 2021, counsel to the victim’s family, A.O. Aniso, stated, “When the accused corps member was confronted with the victim’s claim, he admitted being responsible and pleaded for forgiveness.  “And seeing that the minor was physically distressed and needed medical attention, the parents took her to the community medical centre and their worst fears were confirmed.  “After the medical confirmation, the family again confronted the corps member of his wrongdoing and he apologised profusely even offering N50, 000 to cover medical treatment. This is a criminal act and he has brought great shame to my client’s family.”  Chairperson of Gender Response Initiative Team in the state, Dise Ogbise, said they will work with the police to ensure justice prevailed on the matter.  “As GRIT, Bayelsa State, we will not relax and we will give the child all the necessary legal and psychological support needed,” Ogbise said.