The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has said it plans to visit and have a meeting early 2022 with President Muhammadu Buhari over his statement that the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu must face the consequences of his actions in the court of law. Buhari during an interview with Channels Television on Wednesday evening said Kanu would not be released but must face the wrath of the law.  The President had said there was possibility of political solution for the pro-Biafra separatist leader, but he would not interfere with the judiciary. "So, we are giving him an opportunity to defend himself in our system, not to be abusing us from Europe as if he was not a Nigerian. Let him come here with us and then criticise us here. Nigerians know that I don’t interfere with the judiciary, let him be listened to. But those who are saying that he should be released, no, we cannot release him," Buhari had said. In reaction, Ohanaeze insisted on a political solution to Kanu’s issue. It would be recalled Igbo leaders under the aegis of Highly Respected Igbo Greats had appealed to Buhari to ensure the release of Kanu. This was during their visit to the President nation’s leader in Aso Rock last November. At the time, Buhari had told the Igbo leaders that he would consider their request, although it was a tough demand. Based on his hostile response last night over IPOB leader's matter, Ohanaeze said there would be another meeting with the President. Ohanaeze spokesman, Alex Ogbonnia, stated this while reacting to the President’s interview on political solution in releasing Kanu, PoliticsNigeria reports. Ogbonnia said, “Ohanaeze’s position is very clear and constant. We have looked at the whole scenario and we are convinced that Nnamdi Kanu’s case and IPOB can only be solved through a political solution. It is unfortunate that the Presidency or the president hasn’t appreciated the Ohanaeze position and by extension the Igbo position or the Igbo leadership position on this matter. But we are very confident that by time we will meet him early this year he will understand it more.” Kanu was arrested in Kenya and brought back to Nigeria in June, which was in violation of international laws by United Nations Charter which Nigeria is signatory, according to the claims by his lawyers. He has appeared before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court in Abuja, a couple of times, and he is being detained by the Department of State Services. His next appearance in court has been scheduled for January 18 in Abuja.