Islamic advocacy group, Muslim Rights Concern, has urged Nigerians to resist the tendency of blaming President Muhammadu Buhari and other political leaders alone for the country’s state of affairs.Prof Ishaq Akintola, Director of the organisation, disclosed this in a statement on Friday. Prof. Ishaq Akintola, Director of MURIC



He urged Nigerians to revisit the value system, claiming the society had lost its moral sanity.Akintola commended the judiciary for delivering a fair and just ruling on the case of a student of Toyon High School, Ere in Ado-Odo, Ogun State, whose parents were said to have incited thugs to beat up teachers for sending out their child from the classroom over an indecent hair style.The group maintained that such ruling by Magistrate B.O. Abdul Salaam of the Ado Odo Otta Magistrate Court was a depiction of fair treatment, stressing that the pronouncement had injected a heavy dose of confidence in the judicial system.The statement reads, “Magistrate B. O. Abdul Salaam of the Ado Odo Otta Magistrate Court recently ordered that parents of a student whose mother brought thugs to the school to beat his teachers be remanded in Abeokuta and Ilaro correctional facilities.“MURIC salutes the wisdom of this judge. His judicial pronouncement has injected a heavy dose of confidence in the Nigerian judiciary. He has also sent a strong message to unruly students as well as parents who condone indiscipline that a new sheriff is in town.  “Students have become too daring in recent time if reports of attacks on teachers in various schools is anything to go by. It is shameful that parents nowadays indulge their children and pamper them in spite of their recklessness.“We must revisit our value system. We must change society but that change begins with every Nigerian. We must stop blaming our leaders alone, the police alone, the politicians alone. "We must realise that every Nigerian home has become a training base for all the evils of the world: immorality, indecency, corruption, laziness, excessive materialism, acrobatic impunity, articulated spirituality and gymnastic religiousity. Parents must up their game in loco parentis.”