Embattled gospel singer, Sammie Okposo has reactivated his social media handles with a terse message on how God loves him despite his shortcomings. Recall that the gospel singer deactivated his Instagram and Twitter handles last week after coming under criticism over his affair with a United States lady. 





Okposo had attracted outrage after he admitted to have cheated on his wife in an Instagram post seeking her forgiveness. SaharaReporters had last week reported how in a lengthy post, Okposo had said he had suspended himself from all ministry work until full restoration as he sought forgiveness from God.The Christian singer who made the confession on his Instagram page also urged Nigerians to pray for him.He had narrated that he committed adultery with another woman when he travelled to the United States in late 2021.Following his post, the lady he had an affair and allegedly impregnated had an interview and the video had since gone viral on social media.In the video, the lady disclosed how they met and began their relationship. Since his post last Tuesday, the gospel singer had been trending on social media.Afterwards, Sammie Okposo's Twitter and Instagram accounts were deleted but on Monday, he reactivated his accounts with a message for his followers.In the post, he shared a picture of himself as he told his followers in the caption section that “there is no condemnation in Christ.” In a lengthy post, the singer wrote, “I am the righteousness of God in Christ. I am born of God; the life of God is in me; Christ in me the hope of glory; I am free from the law, from the power of sin. I am no longer bound by the fear of men. “God’s grace is available; sufficient and working for me. Jesus already saved me not because of any works of righteousness that I have done, but because of His own compassion and mercy, by the cleansing of the new birth (spiritual transformation, regeneration) and renewing by the Holy Spirit.“Jesus is crazy about me, He loves me just the way I am. Christ has redeemed me. I live free; all my fears and mistakes are drowned in God’s perfect Love. There is, therefore, no condemnation to me. I am in Christ Jesus. I walk not after the flesh but after the spirit; the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made free from the power of sin and death. Who is he or she that saith a thing and it cometh to pass when the Lord commandeth it not…… NOBODY.”