The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has said that the lack of love among citizens was responsible for the prevalence of killings in Nigeria.  The Sultan stated this while receiving Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, and Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, his Sokoto State counterpart. Sultan of Sokoto He opined that if there was love, all the acrimonies, confusions and killings would not have taken place. This was contained in a press statement issued in Port Harcourt on Saturday by Governor Nyesom Wike’s Special Assistant on Media, Kevin Ebiri. The Sultan said people kill without any motive, saying that bloodthirsty people kill anyhow because there is no love and godliness. Sultan said, “Whatever we have done, it is what our forefathers and religion ordered us to do, and we will do more to strengthen our relationship so that we can have a peaceful society. “So that we can have a country that we can be proud of and say yes, ‘this is the Nigeria that we dream of’. Not the Nigeria that we hear sad news of killing innocent people, unnecessary shedding of blood.” Speaking on banditry in Sokoto State, Wike commiserated with the government and Sultan over the unwarranted killing of innocent citizens by bandits. He also expressed dismay over the wanton killing of innocent citizens by bandits in Sokoto and other parts of the country. Wike said, “We have had a long-standing relationship and so the people of Rivers State have told me to commiserate with you and the people of Sokoto State. “I’m sorry for what happened and we believe God will give the families that have lost their loved ones the courage, give them the strength to bear this unnecessary loss of lives. “You have been trying to stabilise all the religious groups, all the ethnic groups, to understand we have no other country than our country call Nigeria. “You have always spoken out irrespective of whether he touches on Moslems, whether it touches on Christians, or whether it touches on those who don’t have religion. “You have always spoken out and you have admonished government where necessary in terms of insecurity, in terms of other crisis, in terms of poverty. “You have always spoken out and to advise the government on the best way to try and see that things get better for the citizens of the country.” Recall that recently five people were confirmed dead after bandits suspected to be loyal to Bello Turji opened fire on a vehicle conveying 24 people from Sabon Birni to Rijiyar Ladan Village in the Sabon Birni Local Government Area of Sokoto State.