Apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has slammed the Indigenous People of Biafra over its call for the singing of Biafra anthem in all schools in the South-East. The group faulted IPOB for the ban it placed on Nigeria national anthem across the zone. Ohanaeze Ndigbo SaharaReporters had reported that IPOB in its New Year message prohibited the Nigerian national anthem as well the consumption of non-native cows. However, in a statement by Ohanaeze Secretary-General, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, the group cautioned that such a directive would create problem for the people of the region. The statement read, "Such an order will affect the ongoing diplomatic efforts to free Nnamdi Kanu. Instead, the FG might unleash bitterness on the South-East. “This order is also nonetheless destructive to the campaign for the Igbo presidency in 2023 and will give birth to avoidable military raids on all public schools in South-Eastern Nigeria, with the ongoing ‘Operation Golden Dawn’. “Reciting of the Biafra anthem in public schools remains prohibited, forbidden and proscribed as the South-East is still an integral part of Nigeria. “We cannot afford to mislead and misinform our pupils into trending into paths that will attract grave consequences for Ndigbo. “Ndigbo should flout such despicable orders of absurdity as it will be the rationale for future deployment of military Tucson fighter jets to South-Eastern Nigeria. “IPOB should join Ohanaeze in the promotion of Igbo language, cultural heritage, and values in all South-East public schools. This is the best way to get our youngsters to remain committed and imbibe the cultural values and heritage of Ndigbo.” The group, however, threw its weight behind the ban on the consumption of cows from the North and the use of it in Igboland for ceremonies. “The recent security challenges in South-Eastern Nigeria are created by killer herdsmen masquerading as cattlemen to perpetrate heinous onslaught against our local communities. “The enforcement of the ban on consumption of Fulani cattle should be a protest against unhealthy and disease-infested cows being sold to Ndigbo,” the statement added.