Okeowo, elder sister of the girl murdered in Abeokuta, Ogun State, allegedly for ritual purposes, Rofiat, has called on government to ensure that her sister’s killers were brought to justice. Rofiat was reportedly killed by her ex-boyfriend and current lover, who are both friends.  She had been lured from her house in the evening of Friday to a building where she was beheaded. While her head was getting burnt inside a pot, a security guard discovered the activities of the young boys and alerted the police, who arrested three of them. Rofiat’s sister spoke of the last moments she spent with the deceased before discovering that she had been killed. According to PUNCH, she said after putting a pot of beans on the fire in the evening, the deceased took permission from her to go out, to which she agreed. She said she had no idea where she was going. Okeowo said, “When it was around 8:30pm, I called her number and asked if she was coming home tonight. She said she was already on her way and almost home. So, I went to bed. “Around 10:00pm, I called her, only to discover that her number was no longer reachable. I asked her mother if she had seen her daughter, she said no. The following morning, I asked her mother again and she gave the same response. “It was later in the day that I heard that a lady was killed and beheaded in the community. I was suspicious at that moment since I had not seen Rofiat.” She said when she saw the viral video showing the suspects that beheaded the lady, she recognised one of them. This prompted her to carry a photo of the deceased to Adatan Police Station where the Divisional Police Officer told them that she had been murdered. She said their mother, who is suffering from hypertension, has not been informed of the situation because they are afraid something might happen to her if the news was broken to her. “If we tell her now and she dies, that will leave us with two dead bodies,” she said. She said ever since they warned Rofiat’s boyfriend to stop seeing her, she had not laid eyes on him, adding that she “finds it surprising that he would be the one to kill her sister". On what she wants government to do for her, she said, “Government should ensure she’s avenged. "Those that killed her should be killed as well. They should also be beheaded just as they did to her.”