Some founding members of the Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom has said political calamity awaits the party in the state if Governor Emmanuel Udom failed to be fair to all members.  The stakeholders in an open letter by High Chief Samuel Ukpabio (Eket Senatorial District), Andem Andy (Uyo Senatorial District) and Atuekong Uyoata Udofa (Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District) said any move by the governor to impose his Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Pastor Umo Eno, would not be acceptable to well-meaning members of the party.  They asked the PDP chairman in the state, Aniekan Akpan, to advise Udom and ensure he maintains the peace and unity in the party by creating a level playing field for all aspirants in the spirit of justice, equity and fairness.  The letter reads, “We have decided to write you because of some actions of yours which has proven beyond reasonable doubt that you had only one aim as governor; the final destruction of the Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State, with your insistence that your successor must be Pastor Umo Eno.  “Your Excellency, please for once be honest to yourself and search your conscience. If you were not even a governor and someone else who was governor was prepping up a character like your Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, would you have supported such a cause? Before now you had bragged that your successor will be someone with an international email address, someone the world listens to and respects, someone who is globally recognised. And we wonder, how does Pastor Umo Eno fit into this?  “It is sad that for more than six years, Pastor Lawrence Achudume and your step-brother, Gabriel Nkanang, has been the ones controlling your psyche with prophesies that has done more harm than good to yourself and the future of the state. That Pastor Achudume is the one bragging that he made you governor by prophesy and that he is the one who will choose your successor, presents a sad tale of how far you are ready to allow your executive carelessness ruin the PDP, a party we all laboured to form since 1998 when you were no where near politics of Akwa Ibom State.  “Akwa Ibom must not be turned into a comedy show where soothsayers determine who will govern them against all modern norms. Kindly pull the brakes and put a stop to this madness before you destroy the gains of your administration. Most importantly, stop this madness that is capable of bringing the uninterrupted reign of PDP to a sad end in Akwa Ibom by 2023 if you refuse to listen to advice." 