The Indigenous People of Biafra has reacted to the threat by the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) that the North will stop engagement of commercial activities and transporting of North-made products to the South East of Nigeria. Recall that the CNG said this last week to react to IPOB statement that there shall be no slaughtering of cows in the region.  In a statement released by its spokesperson, Emma Powerful, IPOB said there were enough evidence that some herdsmen had sex with their cows, noting that it is an abomination in Igboland to eat beef from such animals. It also stated that the ban on cows from herders would prevent raping of their women and other evil deeds perpetrated by the herders. The group said, “Part of the statement read, "The attention of the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has been drawn to the latest ranting against IPOB members and ESN operatives including entire people of Biafra living in the North. "These irritants have called for the boycott of all Igbo products in the North as a retaliation for the proposed ban on cow meat in Biafra land with effect from April. "We did not ban cow meats but those cows that were destroying our farms and those raping our mothers, wives and sisters in the farms. Biafrans can eat foreign cows not the ones that can bring terrorists in our territories. "This threat by these misguided Northern groups has further confirmed the belief that the atrocities of rapists herdsmen in Biafra and other parts of Nigeria are a common agenda of the North and their terrorists disguised as herdsmen and cattle rearers in all parts of Nigeria and Biafra. "However, we waiting for the terrorists to carry out their threat against Igbo traders and business interests in the North come April when the ban will take effect. They should remember and understand that the era of intimidation of Igbo people in Nigeria has gone. Nobody has the monopoly of anything anymore against our people if they do they will regret their actions because days has gone for that rubbish. "Besides the genocidal attacks by herdsmen against innocent communities in Biafra land will soon gone; the cows they bring to us are defiled and we won't allow it again here in Biafraland. Evidence abounds of viral videos where these elements have illicit and abominable sex with cows. "Such is a taboo and an abomination in our land and remained sacrilege in our culture and traditions. Our God abhors it and our land does not tolerate such evil. Never again shall we allow Biafra land to become a dumping ground for defiled cows. "The Northern coalition should have first questioned herdsmen on why they have sex with cows, film such abominable act by themselves and post the video to the world. What is the reason for such beastly behavior? Who do they want to hypnotise? “IPOB is ready to enforce this ban on cow meat. There are other alternatives to animal protein. We encourage our people to go into poultry farm, goat rearing and fish production. "Nobody should dare violate this ban when it takes effect in April as doing so amounts to testing the will of the people."