The Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, AYCF, has expressed its reaction to Federal Government’s declaration of bandits as terrorists. The forum's National President, Yerima Shettima while speaking with journalists, said that the decision of the Federal Government was better late than never, adding that nobody should be allowed to hold the country to ransom, Daily Post reports.  Shettima stressed that President Muhammadu Buhari should be commended for the decision to declare bandits as terrorists. According to Shettima, “It’s better late than never, it’s long overdue. All the tendencies and characters of terrorism have been displayed by these characters in the name of banditry. “It’s indeed a good thing and I applaud the Federal Government for that courage. Some of us were not happy when the court made the pronouncement and the president could not attend to it immediately, but it’s better late than never; this cannot continue. “Nobody can be allowed to continue to hold the country to ransom; as such, I commend the Federal Government and Buhari for this feat. “I hope those saddled with the responsibility will do the needful, so that for once, we can have some rest.” Asked if the proscription is a sign that Nigerians should expect an improvement in the country’s security, Shettima, in his reaction to whether or not proscription is sign that Nigerins should expect an improvement in the country's security, said; “I believe from what I’m seeing that we are likely to see something better than what we have seen in the past.” It had been reported that the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), had gazetted a court judgement which proscribed bandits. The gazetted pronouncement proscribed their existence, restraining any person or group of persons from participating in activities of bandit groups. This followed weeks of footdragging, after Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja, granted an ex parte application for Yan Bindiga (Hausa word for gunmen) and Yan Ta’adda (Hausa word for terrorists) to be declared as terrorists. 