President Muhammadu Buhari's administration has inaugurated a 23-member governing board of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. While inaugurating the board on Thursday in Abuja, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, urged members to bring their best to bear in combating financial and economic crimes in Nigeria. File photo used to illustrate story. He said, "The board members are creations of the enabling statutes of the various institutions, with the main responsibility of giving policy direction to the commission’s management." EFCC Chairman, AbdulRasheed Bawa, who is also the chairman of the board, disclosed that the commission had been without a board for six years sequel to series of events that warranted its non-existence. He said the board would help the EFCC spearhead the policy direction on the huge challenges it was currently facing in fighting crimes in the country. He said, “EFCC has managed to set a new record in terms of recovery as well as conviction. Last year alone, we recorded 2,220 convictions, which were the highest ever recorded within one calendar year by EFCC.” Members of the board include Luqman Muhammad, Anumba Adaeze, Alhaji Kola Raheem Adesina, and Alhaji Yahaya Muhammad. Institutional representatives are Haruna Nuhu Koko (DSS), Reginald Chukwudi Karawusa (Security and Exchange Commission), Pius Agboola (National Insurance Commission), Salisu Abdu (Nigerian Communications Commission), Nwakaego Celine Nwajei (Nigerian Postal Service), Justine Nidiya (Corporate Affairs Commission), U.G Mohammed (Nigeria Customs Service), Muhammed Aminu Muhammed (Nigerian Immigration Service), Umar Maman Sanda (Nigeria Police Force), Emmanuel Andrew Naman (National Intelligence Agency) and Ibrahim Abdul (National Drug Law Enforcement Agency). Others are Gabriel Christopher (Federal Ministry of Finance), Adamu Shaibu (Ministry of Foreign Affairs), Jeremiah Abue (Central Bank of Nigeria), Galadima Yusufari Gana (Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation); while a representative of the Ministry of Justice, George Abang Ekpungu, is the secretary to the board.