President Muhammadu Buhari has admitted the failures of his administration to tackle the insecurity problems in Nigeria as he expressed hopes that God will listen to the country's prayers. According to him, government at various levels was aware of the security challenges, claiming his regime had done its best on security and will continue to do more by pursuing policies to deal with terrorism. President Buhari He also charged Nigerians to be fair to his government in assessing insecurity in the country particularly considering the security situation when he took over in 2015. While hoping God answers prayers, Buhari said North-West which had given the nation some “headache” would experience a turnaround for the better. Buhari spoke on Friday during a visit by the Grand Khalifa of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Movement World-Wide, Tidjani Ali Bin Arabi, to the State House, Abuja. The President urged citizens to show interest in their safety and complement what the government was doing. He added, “We have done our best, and we will continue to do more by pursuing coherent and consistent policies to deal with terrorism. I hope God will listen to our prayers.” Buhari also expressed gratitude to Kano State hovernor, Abdullahi Ganduje, who invited the Grand Khalifa to come and pray for the peace and stability of Nigeria. Ganduje, accompanied by the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado-Bayero, and leader of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, said the state government invited the Tijjaniyya World Leader to the country to lead faithful in prayer considering the complexities around the insecurity in the country. He said the visit of the Grand Khalifa rekindled the old ties between the Tijjaniya and many cultural and educational institutions in Nigeria. Arabi and Bauchi extolled the cordial relations between Nigeria and Algeria as they prayed for guidance and blessings for the country and its leaders. Ganduje told journalists, “We invited him and his team to pray for the peace, stability and prosperity of Kano State and Nigeria. We are all aware of the security challenges we are having, the federal and state governments, we are all doing our best. “To round it up, we decided to visit Mr President. They prayed for him and indicated the importance of the relationship between Algeria and Nigeria and their continued cooperation in prayers for peace and stability.” The governor added that the delegation constituted a committee to consider education, commerce, and agriculture issues.