A former governor of Imo, Rochas Okorocha, has slammed Governor Hope Uzodinma over his refusal to name sponsors of insecurity in the state as promised. Okorocha in a statement said the governor failed to name the sponsors “after much noise to that effect” before the stakeholders meeting held in the state on Tuesday.  During the Imo stakeholders meeting at the Government House, Owerri, Uzodinma reportedly acknowledged that he promised to name the sponsors of attacks in Imo but he craved the indulgence of the people that he would no longer mention names but rather leave security agencies “to do their work” and prosecute those found culpable. Okorocha added that Uzodinma’s administration had made Imo State a laughing stock. He said, “Governor Hope Uzodinma had ended his much-orchestrated stakeholders meeting on Tuesday, January 4, 2022 and at the end of the day, he failed or refused to name the sponsors of insecurity in the state and after much noise to that effect before the meeting. "The governor was quoted to have said that, he would “allow security agencies to investigate the culprits and bring them to book”. "But the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Oguwuike Nwachukwu, had before the stakeholders meeting mentioned some people in his press release, pointing to them as the sponsors of insecurity in the state. "The names mentioned included Senator Rochas Okorocha and Ugwumba Uche Nwosu. "The CPS was not conscious of contradicting his principal and that was what happened. "That is to say, on Monday, the governor via his Press Secretary had mentioned some names as sponsors of insecurity in the state. "And a day after, precisely, on Tuesday, January 4, 2022, the same governor said he won’t mention the sponsors of insecurity in Imo again. "Yet, we won’t fail to ask: Whose report or account do we believe? Governor Uzodinma’s account or that of his Chief Press Secretary? "The Camp Hope government has made Imo State a laughing stock. The government has become a nightmare to itself and an embarrassment to Imo State and her people. "Otherwise, there is no reason a CPS could not have waited for the man who engaged him to have his stakeholders meeting and then takes off from there. "For us, since Governor Uzodinma had failed or refused to mention the alleged sponsors of insecurity in the state at the stakeholder’s meeting, we leave it at that. "We won’t begin to pursue what a CPS wrote out of fear or curiosity or both.” 