The Councillor representing Igumale Ward 2, in the Ado Local Government Council of Benue State, Patience Enotse Egwurube has called out the Council Chairman, James Oche, for allegedly withholding the council’s share of the money released by the state government, as Christmas package.Governor Samuel Ortom had allegedly mobilised the 23 Council Chairmen in the state, for onward disbursement to Councillors, Supervisory Councillors, Traditional Rulers and other stakeholders in their respective areas, for the celebration of Christmas. But, in reaction to the gift disbursed by the governor, Egwurube, who is the only female Councilor in the entire 102 Council Wards of Benue South, posted via her Facebook page on Sunday, that “all Council Chairmen reached out to their people as directed except Ado LGC."The lawmaker, also in another post also alleged that her life was under threat for daring to speak out on the issue.According to her, she decided to “bring the attention of the public to the excruciating issue rather than dying in silence," stressing that, her constituents were already complaining about the injustice and neglect.Egwurube further alleged that the Leader, Ado Legislative Council, Emmanuel Ajagbo, failed to address the House on the issue.She wrote, “Xmas without merriment in Ado. Ado is a council out of the 23 LGCs in Benue State. The father and Leader of Benue State, Governor Samuel Ortom approved and released money to the 23 Council Chairmen to disburse to Councillors, Supervisory Councillors, Traditional Rulers and other stakeholders for the celebration of the Xmas.“All Council Chairmen reached out to their people as directed except Ado LGC. I represent Igumale Ward 2 and my people are complaining, I am also complaining. We have decided not to die in silence.“The Ado Legislative Council Leader is silent, he is not addressing us; he is not representing the collective interest of Igumale Ward 2 which is the headquarters of Ado LGC!“What is happening? Do we deserve this suffering? Why will Governor send Xmas package to us and the Ado Council Chairman will sit on it? Me, I will shout ooo! I am not an appointee of the Council Chairman, James Oche, the people of Igumale Ward II elected me to speak for them and I am speaking for me.”She also claimed that the Chairman had directed Leader of the House, Hon. Emmanuel Ajagbo, to remove her from the House’s WhatsApp in a similar post.