The founder of Common wealth Of Zion Assembly (COZA), Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo has been accused of owing salaries of church workers.Nnenna Kalu-Ude, a former choir leader of the church who made this known on Thursday in a post on social media, said many of the persons affected were afraid to speak up. COZA Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo.



“People may not speak because they are afraid of you, I don’t blame them. I was like them too. But I’m no longer afraid. I left my fear by your gate on the day of my last worker’s meeting in your cult.“I’ve never seen such cruelty; not paying workers’ salaries for months but expecting them to still show up every day. Driving them out of the house even to point of nearly putting Catherine on the streets. Clearing the entire house of every furniture and appliance so that those that were still left would leave,” he added. See Also






Christianity
You Have Broken Marriages – Former COZA Choir Leader Lambasts Pastor Fatoyinbo Over Member's Death
0 Comments
7 Hours Ago





SaharaReporters had earlier reported that Nnenna Kalu-Ude, alleged that Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, was responsible for the death of her friend, Tega, who was also a choir member.Kalu-Ude had further alleged that Fatoyinbo maltreated workers of the church and suppresseed his critics through occult powers.She claimed people who wanted to speak up about the anomalies and abnormalities in the church either fell ill or died mysteriously.She wrote on the Insta story, “Dearest Tega your death was so unnecessary but it will not go unpunished. I’m so broken. Biodun Fatoyinbo, you know I know you. I know you more than you think you do and I’ve never seen such cruelty.“People have lost their faith in God because of you. You have broken marriages and homes. Your suffering and judgement shall be an everlasting one. There might not be evidence yet to prove that you have dabbled into the occult but nothing is hidden under the sun.“For so long you have gotten away with evil but this one will not escape you. The world will know you for who you really are. Hitting on Catherine for the longest time, and she kept turning him down. She became the enemy number one because she said No to the advances of the ‘man of God’.“Tega was experiencing pregnancy difficulties. Spent the entire holidays in the hospital bed. But no visit from anyone. Have you no heart?“Tega was going to leave this month. For some reason, something happens to the people who have either left or are planning to leave. From strange illnesses to death. For everyone still serving there, I commit you to your maker.”