The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has reacted to the appointment of Dr Doyin Salami as the Chief Economic Adviser by President Muhammadu Buhari as a waste of time. The party said the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Buhari in “in their ignorance, arrogance and incompetence are never known to have any respect or regard for professional advice on governance and policy.”  In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, obtained by SaharaReporters, the PDP advised Salami to prevail on Buhari to stop reckless borrowing which had plunged Nigeria into an economic crisis. “Dr. Salami should therefore protect his image by advising President Buhari to end his reckless borrowing and grow the economy by allowing for more transparency, redirecting the resources being siphoned by APC leaders to critical sectors of the economy, especially power and agriculture and giving hardworking Nigerians, especially the youths, greater incentives for active participation in the national economy," PDP said partly. The statement further read, "The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) describes the appointment of Dr. Doyin Salami by President Muhammadu Buhari as Chief Economic Adviser barely a year to end of his disastrous administration as a design to make the economist a scapegoat for the abysmal failures of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government. "It is evident that Dr. Salami might end up being rubbished and diminished as a titular adviser. As long as the APC, with its insensitivity to the plight of Nigerians is in government, involved professionals like Dr. Salami can never make a headway but risks being smeared with failure. "If the APC government did not listen to Dr. Salami as the Head of the hurriedly established Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC), it will not now take his advice in his new capacity because the APC government lacks the listening ears, competence, capacity, integrity and political will and desire for good governance." "If President Buhari and the APC had listened to well-thought-out advice by patriotic Nigerians as well as the PDP on how to stabilize and grow the economy, our nation would not be in the current economic quagmire where over 80 million Nigerians can no longer afford their daily meals and other basic necessities of life "The APC failed to heed the counsel to end its corruption, open up and diversify our economy, review its restrictive and exclusionist policies, invest more in our productive sectors, end its victimisation of hardworking Nigerian entrepreneurs, adopt broad-based approach that allows for greater private sector participation and stop de-marketing our country especially the youths in the international arena. “Instead, the Buhari-led administration remained lethargic, nonchalant, unconcerned, hubristic and irredeemably narcissistic. It turned itself into a cesspit of corruption and continued to provide official cover to inept, reckless and treasury-looting APC leaders and their cronies in government. "For emphasis our party admonishes Dr. Salami to note that his task of advising an incompetent, arrogant and corrupt administration would be gruelling if not a complete waste of time," the statement added. 