Self-determination group, Indigenous People of Biafra, has vowed to deploy operatives of its militia arm, Eastern Security Network, to arrest and punish criminals enforcing sit-at-home in the South-East. According to the group, some politicians were working with security agents to unleash terror on innocent residents under the pretext of enforcing the canceled sit-at-home to give IPOB a bad name.  IPOB said this in reaction to reports that gunmen razed vehicles and shot sporadically into the air to disperse people in their quest to enforce Monday sit-at-home in Enugu. In a statement by the group's spokesperson, Emma Powerful, on Tuesday, IPOB said those enforcing the sit-at-home will have themselves to blame. The group also called on governors in the region to provide adequate security for the people, so as to bring those who are enforcing sit-at-home to justice. The statement reads, "The attention of the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra has been drawn to the senseless shooting in Enugu State on Monday by hoodlums and cultists recruited and sponsored by some politicians in the state who derive joy in spilling blood of their fellow citizens. "We have severally explained that IPOB has not authorised anybody to enforce Monday sit-at-home which has been suspended since September 19, 2021. Anybody unleashing sorrow on innocent citizens under the guise of enforcing sit-at-home order is a criminal and does not deserve pity. "Despite the suspension of Monday sit-at-home since 19th of September 2021, some unscrupulous elements and criminals conniving with security agencies and our enemies have continued to inflict pain on our people. Their aim is to blackmail IPOB but they will continue to fail. "Now, we want to inform our people to stand firm in the fight for their liberty. IPOB did not ask anybody to enforce sit-at-home of any kind. Henceforth, ESN operatives will come from the bushes and forests and go after these criminals unleashing mayhem on innocent people and visitors to Biafra land in the name of enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. "We also ask Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to also deal decisively with any hoodlum using Monday sit-at-home to tortore innocent citizens/residents of the state. No genuine member of IPOB or ESN operative is involved in any enforcement of Monday sit-at-home order. Anybody doing so is working against Biafra restoration. "We equally call on our people and members of the public to skin alive, any idiot caught inflicting sorrow on the people in the name of enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. Such evil soul and messenger of death doesn't deserve to live. "Those shooting sporadically in the market are criminals and bandits using the name of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu and ESN to humiliate our people and demonise the movement. Their aim is to give the federal government excuse to hold our leader perpetually in detention. "ESN operatives must be ready to confront criminals creating these problems in the name of ESN and IPOB in the region.  We have suspended Monday sit-st-home long time ago, and we have not rescinded that decision.  Biafrans must be strong to withstand our enemies and their collaborators every Monday. "IPOB was not formed to terrorise people.  We remain peaceful and focused on the pursuit of Biafra freedom and independence. "Governor Ugwuanyi and other Governors in the region must provide security for our people on Mondays because ESN is now ready to confront these criminals. "Nobody should link IPOB or ESN with these bunch of crimial acts in our region and those enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. How can we stop sit-at-home and turn around to compel people to observe it? IPOB are not hypocrites and we must come out victorious. "The media should stop linking IPOB and ESN with the criminals behind this sad development. They are not our members and  we can never accommodate these kind of criminals in our movement and family of IPOB."