The Federal High Court in Abuja adjourned the trial of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, to Wednesday. Before the adjournment, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), new leader of the defence counsel for Kanu, informed the court that his client could not make a plea because the defence team had yet to study the amended charge and had not had a proper briefing with Kanu.  Ozekhome on Tuesday argued that he was not allowed to brief his client properly before the court hearing particularly in relation to the 15-amended charges. BBC quoted him as saying, “We ought to be given the amended charges aforetime so we can brief the defendant, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, but we didn't get to hear of this till yesterday (Monday).” 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Court Adjourns Nnamdi Kanu’s Trial To Wednesday
0 Comments
6 Hours Ago He alleged that the plan of the government was to ensure the court hearing for Tuesday would not hold. Ozekhome also expressed displeasure on some issues about the fundamental rights of Kanu saying the security operatives did not grant Kanu access to his lawyers to show him the charge sheet. He also alleged that Nnamdi Kanu had not been well-fed, saying his room was also bugged by the security operatives monitoring every conversation that took place in there. Ozekhome noted that Kanu had not been allowed to have a change of cloth since he was arrested and detained. Subsequently, the presiding judge Justice Binta Nyako ordered the DSS to allow Kanu to have a change of cloth before he appeared in the court on Wednesday.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Fresh 15-Count Amended Charge Filed By Nigerian Government Against Nnamdi Kanu
0 Comments
8 Hours Ago Nyako also asked the DSS officials to allow the lawyers to speak with Kanu inside the court about the charges after which he will be taken into custody Recall that on Monday, the Nigerian Government filed fresh terrorism charge against Kanu. The 15-count charge was marked FHC/ABJ/CR/383/2015 and signed by Director of Public Prosecution, M.B Abubakar was filed less than 24 hours to the court hearing. Kanu had on Tuesday appeared before Justice Binta Nyako to answer to the 15-count charge levelled against him by the Nigerian government but the hearing was adjourned. The IPOB leader had arrived at the court by 7am amidst heightened security. 