The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said the Nigerian government is keeping its leader, Nnamdi Kanu in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) because he declined monetary and land offers to make him forsake Biafra agitation. According to the group, some persons have promised to help President Muhammadu Buhari’s government to make Kanu bow to pressure, hence trying to cause division among IPOB members. 

Nnamdi Kanu



IPOB said these through a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, on Monday. It read, "The attention of the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has been drawn to the secret plans by the Buhari government to illegally detain our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu for as long as possible. "Their annoyance with our leader is his blunt refusal to take properties and monetary inducement offered him to abandon the struggle for Biafra liberation. "The Federal Government decided to hold our leader indefinitely to see if it can possibly infiltrate the ranks of our great movement and destroy it from inside while our leader is in custody. "The federal government is also relying on the promise by some traitors and black sheep in America and Europe that they would assist it realise the evil plot. The promise was made to the federal government during their secret visit to Aso Rock last December."It also disclosed that the Nigerian government was plotting to pitch the international community against the group. "We are also aware that the Federal government has been lobbying the international community to enlist their support against Biafra liberation but they won't succeed. Therefore, anybody distracting or causing division in the IPOB family is a tool knowingly or unknowingly working for the Federal Government of Nigeria. "The fact remains that Biafra is a divine project. It has gone beyond any single individual including our leader. Millions of the oppressed Biafrans youths home and abroad are now more aware and conscious than ever. It's only a matter of time. Biafra MUST come. It can only be delayed but certainly not suppressed."Our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU must be released unconditionally. So, the Federal Government won't achieve their aim because our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU and IPOB members committed no crime known to law both locally and internationally."Again, we want to raise the alarm that the Department of State Services, DSS has concluded plans to hold and keep torturing three innocent Igbo women in solitary confinement without allowing them out of their tiny cell at all.  These innocent women were being held under such condition because they have refused to lie against our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU, so the DSS intend to break their spirits. "The DSS is going to courts and obtaining black market orders to detain Biafrans indefinitely. And one of the judges issuing such orders is Justice Maha of Federal High Court Abuja. The world should be aware of this. They must be made to account for their crimes," the statement added.