Governor of Borno State, Babagana Zulum, has said that Abadam and Guzamala local government areas in Borno State were still under the control of the Boko Haram terrorists. According to Vanguard, Zulum made the revelation when Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Mohammed Ali Ndume, led other senators including military officers from the army headquarters on a visit to the Government House in Maiduguri, Borno State capital.  Zulum said, ” I am pleased to inform you that we have started witnessing a gradual return of peace, but more need to be done, because, presently, Guzamala and Abadam local government areas are still under the control of Boko Haram. “Although, the current service chiefs, the theatre commander, and indeed our General Officer Commanding 7 Division are up and doing. We want to commend the military and other paramilitary personnel for their gallant efforts to see to the end of terrorism in this part of the country. “Unfortunately, government and people of Borno State, especially those from southern and northern parts of the state are worried over the increasing number of ISWAP groups who have been terrorising their communities. “Just a few days ago, I received a security report that in some communities of Mandaragirau axis in Biu Local Government Area, there are reports that over 500 Boko Haram/ISWAP groups have been converging with over 300 motorcycles and even celebrating parties/marriages amongst themselves without confrontation. “ISWAP are more equipped, sophisticated, intelligent and dangerous as they grow from strength to strength. “ISWAP are collecting taxes along major roads in Damboa and other axes in southern Borno. It is very unfortunate. “But the good news is that about 11 local government areas of Gwoza, Bama, Marte, Monguno, Kaga, Gubio, Mafa, Dikwa, Ngala and host of others are becoming more peaceful than before, and this could be attributed to about 20,000 surrendered members of Boko Haram who are now in our custody. ” I want to use this opportunity to solicit for prayers from all and sundry for total restoration of peace not only in Borno State, but the country as a whole.” The governor's statement corroborates an report earlier given by Speaker of the state's House of Assembly, Abdulkarim Lawan, that 99% of communities of Guzamala where he hailed from were under the control of Boko Haram.