As the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professional of Nigeria bill is awaiting presidential assent, a coalition of civil society group has drawn the attention of lawmakers to two fresh bills with similar mandates.  The CIFIPIN 2021 (HB.791) had been passed by both chambers of the National Assembly and is awaiting presidential assent.  However, two other bills with similar mandates to those of CIFIPIN were introduced in the House of Representatives.  They are Chartered Institute of Forensics and Fraud Examiners of Nigeria, 2021 (HB 1220), and Chartered Institute of Computer Forensics of Nigeria, 2021 (HB 1491).  However, the Foundation for Democracy in Africa, Centre for Public Integrity, Nigerian Watch Organisation, Citizens Awareness Watch in a joint statement signed by Sidney Usman Godwin said the two private bills were not in the interest of the nation.  The coalition asked the upper and lower legislative chambers to decline passage.  The statement reads, “The protest became necessary in view of clandestine moves by the House of Representatives to create an overlapping functions.  "We were surprised that while the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria 2021 (HB.791) was in its final stage of passage in the House of Representatives and eventual transmission to Mr. President, the two bills seeking to establish the same Chartered Institute of Forensics of Nigeria were introduced.  "The Chartered Institute of Forensics and Fraud Examiners of Nigeria, 2021(HB. 1220), and Chartered Institute of Computer Forensics of Nigeria 2021, (HB.1491) are not different in general principles and functions from CIFIPIN.  "It is instructive to note that these two later bills are on the same subject matter as the earlier one which is Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria (CIFIPIN) bill 2021.  “Clearly, the Institute maintained that this runs counter to Order 12, Rule 14(a) of the House Standing Orders, saying that the of House of Representatives should withdraw those two later bills.”  The group also warned on the activities of some faceless group whose intention is to malign the Office of the Senate President to pave way to hijacking the activities of the new body.  "Be Informed that some mischief makers disguising as civil society organisations who wish to hijack the already existing Chartered Institute of Forensics and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria Bill, had written series of petitions maligning the office and person of the Senate President.  "It is in the public domain that they are moves by the mischief makers to prevail on the Attorney-General of the Federation to discourage the final assent of Mr President to the new body.  “Also worried that the House Committee on Rules and Business could not as a matter of duty, detect that those two later bills were on the same subject matter with the earlier Bill passed by the Parliament even when its attention was drawn to it.  "We therefore advise the members sponsoring the two later bills appropriately or alternatively, inform the House promptly to avoid ridiculing the image of the Parliament. This is an abuse of legislative processes which can never be in the interest of our dear country and Africa at large. Documents are available on this and are hereby attached."