The lifeless bodies of three persons have been recovered from a cesspit of a dispersed settlement at Agingin community in the Bassa local government area of Plateau state. It was learnt that their suspected killer, a 31-year-old Samson Eze had separately lured his victims— all equally known to him—from their workplace as transport workers in Jos to his older brother's residence in Bassa where he had killed and hidden their bodies.  Eze also carted away their two tricycles and one motorcycle as he planned to sell them off to sponsor his flight out of the state. The Divisional Police Officer of Bassa LGA, James Yakubu, confirmed the incident on Wednesday. Yakubu said that they were incited to act as soon as the case was reported by the relative who had, accidentally, made a discovery of the bodies at his house over the weekend. The DPO added that while the bodies were being retrieved and taken to the mortuary, the suspect had been arrested and transferred to the State CID for further investigation. Found at the disposal of the suspect, alongside the looted cycles of his victims, were full military regalia and weapon of attack, all of which had been withdrawn from his residence. Commenting on the situation also, the Chairman of Bassa LGA, Stephen Andy Igmala, expressed shock on the unperturbed operation of the suspect despite the time-bound restraint placed on bikes and tricycle operators in Jos. According to him, the suspect was revealed to have conveyed his victims between the hours of 7:30 and 8:30 in the evening as against the allotted time for tricycle and motorcycle movement in Jos. In curtailing the situation, however, the chairman promptly imposed a similar restraint on tricycle and motorcycle operators in Bassa to be effected daily from 8pm. He added that he would be working closely with the vigilante groups and the FTF to mount checkpoints and monitor the implementation of the order. While lamenting the delay in retrieving the bodies, families of the victims at the scene, made a unanimous outcry for due justice at the end of it all.