Embattled former head of the Nigeria Police Force’s Intelligence Response Team, Abba Kyari, has deleted all posts on his verified Facebook page. This comes hours after the suspended officer uploaded 462 pictures from the wedding of Maina Alkali, son of Usman Baba, the Inspector-General of Police, which took place on Saturday in Maiduguri, Borno State.  Kyari had not been seen in public functions since the outrage that greeted his Facebook post on August 4, 2021 amid his controversial involvement with alleged Internet fraudster, Ramon Abbas popularly known as Hushpuppi. He eventually deleted the post and also disappeared from Instagram where he had over 80,000 followers. Before the post, his last post on the platform was on July 26, 2021. However, the Borno indigene took to his verified Facebook page with over 450,000 followers on Saturday to share photos from the wedding of the IGP’s son. SaharaReporters’ check on Sunday morning revealed that the embattled deputy police commissioner had deleted all his previous posts on Facebook. In July 2021, the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed how Kyari allegedly collaborated with Hushpuppi to jail one of the latter’s associates after a dispute over a $1.1million scam on Qatari businesspeople. The FBI also alleged that the embattled social media celebrity sent money to Kyari via a third person bank account and hosted him in his Dubai apartment. According to the US Department of Justice, a criminal complaint initiated the prosecution of Hushpuppi as court documents showed that Abbas, 37, pleaded guilty. The United States Attorney’s Office, Central District of California, had issued an arrest warrant against Kyari. Hushpuppi has since pleaded guilty to the charges and if convicted risks a 20-year-jail term, three-year supervision upon completion of jail term, and monetary restitution to the tune of $500,000 or more. The court documents also outlined a dispute among members of the Hushpuppi conspiracy, which allegedly prompted him to arrange to have an individual identified as ‘co-conspirator’ Kelly Chibuzor Vincent, jailed in Nigeria by DCP Kyari. Following the allegations, the top detective was suspended and a panel was set up by the Inspector-General of Police to probe the FBI allegations. But Kyari denied the allegations, claiming that his “hands are clean”. SaharaReporters last week reported that the spokesperson for US Attorney Office for Central District of California, Thom Mrozek, confirmed that Hushpuppi would be sentenced on February 14.