The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has condemned the presidential ambition of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, saying it is dead on arrival. According to the Igbo group, the foundation of Tinubu’s ambition is not built on fairness, equity and justice, and as such will be an exercise in futility.  Ohanaeze reiterated that it is the turn of the South-East region to produce the next president of Nigeria, adding that the former Lagos Governor lacks conscience to begin preparation to be the nation's next leader. All these were contained in a statement by the Ohanaeze's spokesperson, Chief Alex Ogbonnia in reaction to Tinubu’s declaration of his lifelong ambition yesterday. Chief Ogbonnia said, “It is an assertion rooted in history and experience that any project that is not supported by justice and equity will not succeed. It is a project that is dead on arrival. Because God is a universal entity that he is always interested in truth, fairness and equity. So for anybody embarking on anything that is not rooted in equity and justice will not succeed and this is a countervailing force that has sustained this world from the beginning. “So Tinubu knows that he is embarking on a cause that has no foundation in anything: foundation in equity and justice; and of course is a project that will not succeed.” Ohanaeze spokesmen added that, “because there is this collective conscience that has been guiding this country. The collective conscience is to culturally determine what is right and what is wrong and to pursue the one that is right and ignore the one that is wrong. “But all the same, those who have really gone against the convention have often lost, you know at a point General Sani Abacha wanted to continue but he lost; Goodluck Jonathan ran against the current; he lost; any other person that tries to go against the convention and the current will always lose it. Mr Tinubu is working across purposes with the foundations of this country – foundation rooted in equity and justice. “He knows that this is the turn of the Igbo and instead of supporting for the Igbo to emerge for peace to reign, for the corporate existence of Nigeria to remain intact, he decided adding to the problem and crisis. "So for one to succeed as a matter of facts, patriots should consider the collective interest – the group interest more than self-interest. But in this case now Tinubu is more interested in self-interest. "He considered self-interest above group interest or corporate existence of Nigeria. And that is selfishness at its height and any country that has such people is always in problem. “Ohanaeze’s position is that Tinubu knows that he is doing the wrong thing. He is embarking on a project that is not rooted in equity, justice and fair play, and is against the common current of the conscience of the people and to that extent he will surely lose.” 