The Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has lamented the spate of insecurity in the country including incessant kidnapping on Lagos-Ibadan expressway. According to the National Publicity Secretary, Comrade Jare Ajayi, in a statement, there was kidnapping of seven people around Isara Remo on Lagos/Ibadan Expressway last Sunday which was evidence that the governments at both federal and state levels have failed in their primary duties of providing security and welfare for the people. File photo used to illustrate story. Ajayi recalled that on January 8, 2022, some people were reportedly kidnapped at Onigaari Village on the same Lagos/Ibadan Expressway just as some travellers, including a popular actress, narrowly escaped being kidnapped on the same road last Saturday. “Reports had it that some displaced terrorists in the northern part of the country led by one Belo Turji are making an incursion into Yorubaland in the western part of Nigeria. “We recall the incessant kidnapping of and attacks on innocent people in Ondo, Ogun, Osun and Ekiti States. We also recall the sacking of certain villages in the Imeko area of Ogun State last week. “These are unacceptable and must be stopped forthwith by all means. “The lamentations by Governors of Niger, Zamfara, Benue, Nassarawa, Borno, Kaduna, Sokoto and Katsina states on how terrorists seem to be dictating the pace in their areas ought to serve as a wake-up call for the governments and the security agencies. “Afenifere acknowledged that President Muhammadu Buhari was aware of the security situation going by his recent expressions on the issue. For instance, the President ordered for a ‘robust’ military intervention in the wake of terrorists’ take-over of some local government areas in Niger State just as he asked Nigerians to put their prayers for security before God. The latter he said in a message delivered on his behalf when Governor Ganduje of Kano State hosted the head of Tijanniyah organisation worldwide in Kano last week,” the statement read in part. 