The Nigerian Navy has released the posting of 54 Rear Admirals following the recent promotion of senior officers in the service. Director of Information, Naval Headquarters, Commodore Suleman Dahun, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja.  SaharaReporters also obtained a document showing the breakdown and outlines of the names and offices assigned to the senior officers. According to the navy, Rear Admiral Saidu Garba, formerly Navy Secretary, was appointed Chief of Policy and Plans, Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Barabutemegha Gbassa, formerly the Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval Command has been made the Chief of Administration, Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Sanusi Ibrahim, formerly Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval Command, moved to Naval Headquarters as Navy Secretary, while Rear Admiral Sileranda Lassa, formerly the Flag Officer Commanding Logistics Command, was appointed Group Managing Director, Navy Holdings Limited. The statement disclosed that Rear Admiral Muhammed Nagenu, erstwhile Chief of Logistics, Naval Headquarters, was appointed Chief of Defence Administration at the Defence Headquarters and Rear Admiral Solomon Agada, formerly the Director Peacekeeping Operations, Naval Headquarters has now been appointed Chief of Training and Operations. The postings also affected Rear Admiral Murtala Bashir, who moved from Naval War College as Commandant to National Defence College also as Commandant, while Rear Admiral Adeseye Ayobanjo, formerly the Director Maritime Domain Awareness at the Naval Headquarters, would resume as Chief of Defence Civil Military Cooperation, Defence Headquarters. Similarly, Rear Admiral Okon Eyo, former Director of Training, Defence Headquarters was appointed Chief of Naval Transformation, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Perry Onwuzulike, formerly the Director Lessons Learnt, Naval Headquarters was made the Chief of Naval Safety and Standards, Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Monday Unurhiere, formerly Chief Staff Officer, Naval Training Command has been reappointed to Naval Training Command as Flag Officer Commanding. Following also, Rear Admiral Joseph Akpan, formerly Director Personnel Release was reappointed at the Naval Headquarters as Director of Policy, while Rear Admiral Olumuyiwa Olotu, erstwhile Director of Manning, Naval Headquaters has been appointed Flag Officer Commanding, Logistics Command, and at the same time, Rear Admiral Tanko Pani, a former Admiral Superintendent Naval Ordnance Depot was appointed Director of Plans, Defence Headquarters. Rear Admiral Akinga Ayafa, formerly Chief of Naval Safety and Standards, resumed as Flag Officer Commanding Naval Doctrine Command, while Rear Admiral Nuhu Bala was reappointed at the Defence Headquarters as Director of Transformation. Rear Admiral Vincent Okeke, former Director Transformation, Naval Headquarters, movedto the Defence Headquarters as Director of Logistics, while Rear Admiral Danjuma Moses,also resumed at the Defence Headquarters as Director of Training. The reorganisation also affected Rear Admiral Yakubu Wambai, formerly the Director of Operations Naval Headquarters, now appointed Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval Command and Rear Admiral Emmanuel Beckley resumed as Admiral Superintendent Naval Ordnance Depot.