The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu has urged his supporters to comport themselves in accordance with the law when they come to show solidarity at the Federal High Court, Abuja on Tuesday.This was contained in the statement signed by his lead lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, made available to SaharaReporters on Thursday.  The counsel also said that Kanu's legal team had written all respected international organisations to warn the overzealous Department of State Services operatives and other security agencies to be civil.Ejiofor also asserted that he and his colleagues had taken a new approach to their legal strategies which would astound Kanu's enemies.Kanu, a pro-Biafra separatist agitator is being prosecuted by the President Muhammadu Buhari’s government on allegations of treason levelled against him.He has been in the custody of the secret police, the Department of State Services since June 2021.Speaking about the next court case, Ejiofor said, "We are optimistic that the court outings of Onyendu would be impressive. Onyendu himself is in high spirit."The statement read in full, "We undertook our customary visit to Onyendu in DSS custody today. In the course of the visit, our discussions focused primarily on our final preparations for the legal battle that would resume on the turf of the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division, from next week and on subsequent adjourned dates, if any."We coalesced the product of our individual reflections on the most potent legal strategies henceforth to be adopted, fine-tuned and  harmonised them, and then distilled them into a single, conclusive, potent, workable formula."We are optimistic that the court outings of Onyendu would be impressive. Onyendu himself is in high spirit. Our discussions with him further reassured him and strengthened his determination to persevere unrelentingly. I declare to you, UMUCHINEKE, that Onyendu is fully prepared to appear in court as from the 18th of January, 2022. He is rooting for victory and knows that, with the help of ChukwuokikeAbiama, victory is assured."You will all behold with your eyes an interesting dimension in the harmonised workable formula we have evolved. The detractors of Onyendu will be comprehensively humbled and permanently put to shame."Further, Onyendu utilised the opportunity afforded by our visit to mandate us to admonish his teeming supporters and followers. He advises those of them that would appear in court in demonstration of their unflinching support and loyalty to him to conduct themselves with decorum, be civil in their conduct and comportment, shun violence and deviant behaviour in any manner or form, and exercise restraint in speech."On our part, we have caused formal correspondences to issue on responsible, sovereign, democratic governments and other international institutions to prevail on the Nigerian Government to caution uncouth and overzealous security agents. "We can authoritatively declare to you, UMUCHINEKE, that those correspondences are receiving the requisite attention they deserve. We are optimistic that there would be a positive transformation in the conduct and general approach of the said overzealous security agents at the next appearance of Onyendu in court."We make bold to state for the umpteenth time that Onyendu has not committed any offence known to law. For this reason, he must be released unconditionally."We specially appeal to you, UMUCHINEKE, to demonstrate profound understanding and fortitude in these trying times. You must remain focused, dogged, and resilient. On no account must your untiring spirit be shaken and your resolve diluted."You must keep the peace at all times and comport yourselves with decorum. In no too distant time, you will surely savour the sweetness of victory. Celebration and jollity will resound in your respective dwellings and sorrow and sighing shall take a permanent and unremitting flight to the abyss."Onyendu expresses his profound gratitude and appreciation to millions of his followers and supporters scattered throughout the face of the earth. He declares to them never to lose hope but to hold steadfastly to that one thing that is dear to them. He promises them that with the help of ChukwuokikeAbiama the present distraction would soon pass and that victory and celebration would be their lot."Thank you all, UMUCHINEKE, and remain blessed."