Some indigenes of Enugu East Local Government Area of Enugu State have staged a protest over alleged imposition of a candidate in the next local government election.The Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission had fixed February 23, 2022 for election in the 17 local government areas of the state. Enugu State House of Assembly Speaker, Edward Ubosi.



The commission disclosed this in an election timetable released in November and signed by its Chairman, Dr Mike Ajogwu.The tenure of the current local council chairmen in the state expired on December 5, 2021.The agrieved protesters stormed the Enugu Government House, insisting that they would no longer allow a single family to decide the fate of the entire people.They asserted that since the creation of the Council Area, the chairmanship position had remained under the control of one family, vowing not to let the status quo remain.According to Daily Post, one of the protesters, Prof Paul Nnamchi, who is from Eko Nike, affirmed that they came to register their displeasure over the age-long injustice in Enugu East Local Government Area.He said “the local government is made up of three zones and we feel it is time it moves to another zone. Since the local government was created 26 years from now, it has remained in one zone and more or less one family.“It is time to move it round for equity, for peace. Call the stakeholders, call everybody, it becomes consensus and not this kind of deceit.“So, we enjoin the peace-loving governor of Enugu State to ensure that peace is enthroned in the local government. We are one people, Nike is not divided. We are good people, nobody is more than others.“The governor should come to our rescue; there is need for fairness, equity and fair play and this is the time.”Bethrand Anike, another resident of the area, also said they had suffered much humiliation and injustice in Enugu East Local Government Area.He explained that the governor invited them on January 5, 2022, during which they were given the opportunity to meet and choose the next chairman of the council.He said, “instead of the stakeholders meeting to that effect, the directive of the governor was flouted. Nobody met anywhere, including the traditional rulers.“The traditional rulers, the stakeholders, the youths, the women, nobody invited them. This is not democracy; we have a peaceful governor who has a listening ear but the reverse is the case in Enugu East. But we say ‘No’ to this kind of intimidation. The governor should invite us and address this matter."The Speaker of the Enugu State House of Assembly, Hon. Edward Ubosi, who is from the area came and announced a name to us without discussing with anybody. He told us, he lied to us that the governor gave him and Reps member, Cornelus Nnaji, the authority by virtue of their position to impose a candidate on us where we are preparing for election. We cannot take it."