The Indigenous People of Biafra has urged members and supporters to get prepared and exhibit solidarity with the group’s leader, Nnamdi Kanu, when he appears in court on January 18, 2022.  IPOB said this in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, on Wednesday.  The pro-Biafra secessionist group also stated that all schools in South-East will receive a copy of the Biafran anthem to teach pupils and students.  It went further to declare that every May 30 will be marked to celebrate the independence anniversary of Biafra, boasting that nothing will change their plans.  The group reiterated that it shall charge its members to protest across the globe against the abduction of Kanu in Kenya and his rendition to Nigeria, which has led to his detention with Nigeria’s secret police since June 2021.  The statement reads, “We are the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra ably led by Nnamdi Kanu. We wish to commend Biafrans, friends of Biafra and lovers of Biafra freedom for their resilience and efforts towards the actualisation of Biafran independence.  “We want to declare that Nigerian Government and its security agencies will have no peace of mind unless they release our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu unconditionally because our God will torment them. Kanu is on a divine project and nobody will hold him and have peace of mind.  “The leadership of IPOB headed by Mazi Chika Edoziem has given an order for all IPOB family across the world to activate the protest to show our anger towards the illegal abduction and extraordinary rendition of our leader from Kenya to Nigeria. To this end, we want to inform all Biafrans to get ready to solidarise with our leader as usual in his next court appearance scheduled for January 18, 19 and 20.  “It is on record that the Kenyan Government has openly confessed that kidnapping and extra-rendition of our leader were unlawful and we must leverage on that confession and protest his abduction and rendition by the Nigerian Government in collaboration with her allies.  “Again, concerning the stoppage of reading of Nigerian national anthem in our schools, we want every school to start reading Biafra national anthem and soon every school is going to receive a copy of Biafra national anthem because Biafra is coming and nothing will stop it.  “May 30 of every year will be celebrated as independence anniversary and nothing will stop that.  “Our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu must be released. Nigeria cannot be releasing bandits and terrorists but keep freedom seekers behind bars perpetually.”