Nigerians on social media have lambasted President Muhammadu Buhari over his comment that the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, should defend himself in court for peddling false information about his regime while he (Kanu) was overseas. Buhari had stated this in an interview aired on Channels Television on Wednesday night which was monitored by SaharaReporters. Muhammadu Buhari There have been pressures on Buhari to release Kanu including a recent visit by some Igbo elders led by the Minister of Aviation in the First Republic, Chief Mbazulike Amaechi. During the visit on November 19, 2021, Buhari had told them he would not want to interfere in the running of the judiciary but said he would consider their demand though “a heavy one.” But speaking on Wednesday night during the television interview, the President said, “There is one institution that I wouldn’t interfere with, that is judiciary, Kanu’s case is with the judiciary but what I wonder is when Kanu was safely in Europe, abusing this administration and mentioning too many things, I thought he wants to come and defend himself on the accusations. “So, we are giving him an opportunity to defend himself in our system, not to be abusing us from Europe as if he was not a Nigerian. Let him come here with us and then criticise us here. Nigerians know that I don’t interfere with the judiciary, let him be listened to. But those who are saying that he should be released, no, we cannot release him.” However, the statement of the president didn't sit well with some Nigerians who asked if the judiciary was actually functional, while accusing the Buhari administration of disobedience to several court orders. SaharaReporters aggregated some of the reactions; A Facebook user, Emerenwa Anthony commented: “Nobody is begging you to release him because it is clear to even your misguided brothers in the bush that he committed no offence known to any law. “His only grouse with you is the total freedom of Biafrans from the star crossed and unworkable contraption called Nigeria. It is his inalienable right to demand freedom from associating with savages and anti-social and developmental elements in the 21st century." Another user, Darlington Ogbonna posted, “When a government begins to run from the court, it's a big sign of weakness and incompetence. MNK is an institution and that is a bitter truth." Divine Dominic noted, “If only our judiciary is working but God pass you (Buhari) and APC government, Nnamdi Kanu will surely come out victoriously.” Obed Etobe wrote: “Kanu's trial should be holistic. The law should also inquire into the criminality, if any, of the federal government in kidnapping an individual and bundling him, against his will, from one jurisdiction to another. Is kidnapping a lesser crime than demanding self-determination?" Sunrise Friday stated: “Government should not run away from court or play hide and seek. MNK is not jittery." Amina Oyetunde said: “While the real ex Boko Haram boys are being given the rehabilitation treatment in the Nigerian Military Service and being compensated with terrorist sheikh Gumi free blanket amnesty first theory and the second theory of building schools, malls, libraries, worship centres, slaughtering centres, stadium... for terrorists using the Federal Government money.” Steve Fatile wrote: “Defending himself for doing what? Abba!!! Buhari. He is fighting for freedom without killing anybody, freedom that everyone needs under your failed government.” Edu Ransom stated: “Common sense please, if you can't release him then why waste his precious time in court? The statement is clear, no justice in Nigeria judiciary.” A Facebook user, Ajibodu Bashir said: “It's beyond my imagination that we can arrest someone in Kenya for crime against the country but we can't do the same even though criminals are residing in Sokoto, Zamfara, Niger, Kaduna, and so on.” Olomo Jacob stated: “Give Nnamdi Kanu accelerated and fair hearing to prove himself. Stop trying him behind the scenes out of public knowledge." Frank Adewale wrote on Facebook: “Tell your power-drunk and corrupt DSS to provide him in court to defend himself, why hiding him to face judgement.” Obum Honesty opined, “Courts have no power in Buhari's government...a shame to the judiciary." Ofoegbu Chidinma said: “Then Government of Buhari should stop running away from their own Court.” Amusan Sunday said: “Even if he is defending himself in the court of law, will there be fairness? Is like he is already condemned before trial.” Jeff Nicky stated: “Which court? The one you've influenced with your impunity? You're joking Sir." Onwa G. Na Igbo said: “Whereas you are boycotting your own court, but I also hope that you will swallow your pride and obey the law by following legal procedure.” Martins Ngere wrote: “The court that lacks competent jurisdiction I don't have confidence in Nigerian court period politics have taken the system they are not independent." Nathaniel Okoro: "The same court you are running away from." Chuks Man: "Is that court still working? I guess you should come to the court as well.” In reaction to the report, Samuel Joe queried, “Has he not defended himself enough? You and the so-called AGF kept amending charges in order to just keep him there when it's clear you have no case against him. We have seen in the past when your failed government rrefused to grant him bail even when the court freed him. Continue with your tyranny, it will soon be over.” Ezenwata Sunny said: “President Buhari is just being political over so many issues during this interview and he hasn't respected any court order... Why will he suggest the court now?" Fabian Ejikeme wrote, “If you really want him to defend himself in the court stop adjourning the case." Emmanuel Chukwu stated: “That's better. Your prosecuting counsel should stop hiding and making court adjourn the case. Or are they scared of proving their charges?”