Dr S.S. Soyemi, a Consultant Pathologist at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, on Tuesday fell apart while being cross-examined at the Coroner’s Inquest into the death of Sylvester Oromoni Jnr. Twelve-year-old Oromoni, a student of Dowen College, Lagos, died last year after he was allegedly bullied in school by his colleagues. However, during cross-examination, Soyemi said he listed one factor as the cause of Sylvester Oromoni's Jnr death as against the three he had earlier noted. Soyemi while being questioned by human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), contradicted the earlier report, saying he only mentioned three while giving an opinion.  According to him, he was discussing modalities of the autopsy with some of the persons present during the exercise and had said the deceased died of three main causes of death. However, he only listed one.  He said he listed the cause of death as septicaemia which was caused by Lobar Pneumonia.  He said, “Under opinion as to cause of death 1A, B & C are the three causes of death I stated but I now want to say B & C caused A.”  Recall that a former commissioner of police in Lagos state, Hakeem Odumosu had quoted Soyemi, saying, Our findings at the second autopsy include marked pallor of organs, pneumonia (infection of the lungs), infections of the liver and kidneys as well as the heart. These infections emanated from the ankle infection described earlier in the report. Microscopic sections also confirmed these findings.”  Responding further to Falana's queries during the inquest in Lagos, Soyemi said he took samples from Oromoni to the laboratory and in the same breath, he said he did not take them to the laboratory. He said, “On page 11 ‘commentary’ I said the findings in the oesophagus are not compatible with chemical intoxication. “I took samples from the oesophagus, stomach and intestine, to the lab and look at them under the microscope, they were essentially normal.” But shortly after, he said, “I did not take it to the toxicology laboratory.” He said during the exercise, he found a black substance in the intestine but noted he never sent the black substance to the toxicology laboratory to confirm what it was as the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital had none. So, after saying he took samples from the oesophagus, stomach and intestine of Sylvester Jnr, to the lab and examined them under the microscope, adding that “they were essentially normal,” he recanted and said he never took the substance to a toxicology laboratory. The consultant pathologist further said the “black substance in the intestine of the deceased should not have been taken to the toxicology laboratory in view of the allegation that the deceased was poisoned. The blackish substance could be anything. Anything like stool mixed with embalming fluid.”    His submission is as follows: 1.      I had 14 persons present when I did the post mortem 2.      One of them is Dr. Nwigwe Chikowedili Isabella 3.      She represented one of the students i.e Edward Brown. 4.      I did not authorize her to reveal my findings at Arise TV Station. 5.      That is not the practice for pathologists to speak on findings. It is not normal and not usual. 6.      I was embarrassed when this autopsy was being discussed on the TV because she did not perform the autopsy as she only observed all through and it is not the normal practice. 7.      I swore on oath with the holy bible because I am a Christian. 8.      I did not attend the University of Lagos Medical School. 9.      I attended the Ogun State University now Olabisi Onabanjo University. 10.    I have seen a motto in Lagos State University Teaching Hospital that says “We care but God heals”. 11.    That is the motto of Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. 12.    In the hospital to my knowledge priests come to minister to patients. 13.    In certain circumstances e.g Covid 19 period patients were treated at home. 14.    On 14/12/2021 I arrived in the hospital before 10.00 am 15.    I commenced the autopsy 5.05 pm. 16.    The autopsy lasted till 8.25 pm 17.    Between 10.00 am and 5.00 pm I held a meeting with the persons listed at page 4 who were present. 18.    We were discussing the modalities for the exercise. 19.    I said the deceased died of three main causes of death at page 10. 20.    The cause of death I listed is only one. 21.    I never listed three causes 22.    My cause of death is septicaemia 23.    Lobar Pneumonia caused the septicaemia 24.    1A, B & C in my report on page 10 are the international standard and ways of death certification. 25.    Under opinion as to cause of death 1A, B & C are the three causes of death I stated but I now want to say B & C caused A. 26.    The only cause of death is septicaemia and not three. 27.    In the cause of examination I mentioned sepsis. 28.    I never said sepsis can be caused by massage. 29.    If there is an injury and it is being massaged repeatedly, it could lead to the removal of the skin 30.    I am not aware in the course of my investigation that the ankle injury was subjected to massage at the sickbay of the College. 31.    In the course of opening the deceased I found BLACK SUBSTANCE in the intestine. 32.    I did not send the BLACK SUBSTANCE to the toxicology laboratory to confirm what it is. 33.    I have a department of Radiology in LASUTH. 34.    WE DON’T HAVE A DEPARTMENT OF TOXICOLOGY IN LASUTH. 35.    I examined the liver of the deceased. 36.    It was enlarged. 37.    In my report on page 10, I said toxicology samples are no longer available. 38.    I dismissed the conclusion of the pathologist that says the deceased died of intoxication of chemical substances. 39.    On page 11 “commentary” I said the finding in the oesophagus are not compatible with chemical intoxication. 40.    I took samples from the oesophagus, stomach and intestine, to the lab and look at them under the microscope, they were essentially normal. 41.    I DID NOT TAKE IT TO ANY TOXICOLOGY LABORATORY. 42.    The black substance in the intestine of the deceased should not have been taken to the toxicology laboratory in view of the allegation that the deceased was poisoned. 43.    The blackish substance could be anything. 45.    Anything like stool mixed with embalming fluid. 46.    LASUTH has no facility for testing poison. 