The Islamic Movement in Nigeria has raised fresh concerns over the deteriorating health conditions of their leader, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, his wife, Zeenah, and the denial of their passports by the President Muhammadu Buhari regime. The Shiites Academic Forum in a press statement issued in Abuja by the Secretary of the forum, Abdullahi Musa, said the continued withholding of the duo's passports and denying them of medical trips abroad was a move to complete what the Nigerian Army started at the end of 2015 in Zaria, Kaduna State. Zakzaky and wife Zeenat The IMN disclosed that the couple was suffering from at least 12 ailments and was still having poisonous bullets fragments in their respective bodies.  Musa further said the public ought to know that despite several court judgments, ruling in favour of the unconditional release of their leader and his wife, President Buhari and his Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, were yet to let the couple go overseas to attend to grievous and life-threatening health challenges.  The statement reads, “The July 28, 2021 Kaduna State High Court's acquittal and unconditional discharge of the Sheikh and his wife yet serves as another window of opportunity to travel for their top priority for now, the long overdue medical treatment, but Buhari has kept frustrating the court ruling, even directing the Nigerian Immigration Service to not issue them new passport, having earlier had theirs confiscated by the National Intelligence Agency and Department of State Services.  “Up to this moment, Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife are suffering from many injuries in their respective bodies, and resultant multiple life-threatening health challenges, particularly those triggered by numerous bullets shrapnel and fragments, secreting poisons like lead and cadmium into their blood. There are fragments of bullets around his head and neck. Yes, around the head, from the cheek up to the head, fragments in his hands, on his thigh. He is living with some amount of those poisons in his body, including the fragments of bullets.  “The latest medical reports have been recently reviewed and listed up some multi- morbidities of great concern that are still being suffered by El-Zakzaky; Ischaemic heart disease; left ventricular hypertrophy; left and right thalamic stroke; cervical/ lumbar spondylosis with radiculopathy; left eye anophthalmia; right eye advanced-progressive glaucoma; benign prostate hypertrophy; heavy metal poisoning of lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd); penetrating forearm soft tissue injuries; metallic foreign bodies following multiple gunshot injuries (up to 55 pellets that are currently still embedded, not extracted from the Sheikh.”  The IMN added that his wife also had gunshot on her stomach and her thigh.  It said, “She still has one complete bullet in her body, which found a place in her pelvis. In her latest medical report, is also indicated to be suffering from a lot of multi-morbidities of great concern too, viz: long standing uncontrolled hypertension; severe degenerative bilateral osteoarthritis of the knees rendering her completely wheel chair bound for the past four years and requiring total knee replacement surgeries penetrating soft tissue bullet injury; recurrent episodes of severe acute abdominal pains attributed to the foreign body.  “The physicians said they could not handle their cases here in Nigeria, and recommended that the sheikh and his wife leave the country for medication in a medical facility with not only qualified medical personnel but also up-to-date equipment.  “Therefore, denying the sheikh and his wife necessary travel documents, after their unconditional discharge and acquittal by the court, is nothing but trampling on their right to life, to say the least. This is enough a reason that their freedom is still on the periphery, and hence a total violation of their fundamental rights to life.  “Of course, there is more to the Buhari's wilful denial of passport for proper medication to the couple than meets the eye; and such dilly-dallying is a matter of great concern. It is another cause for alarm, because it is nothing but a move to complete what they started at the tail end of 2015 in Zaria.”