Ghana has commenced a new investigation into the activities of a Nigerian, Bachir Musa Aminou, who was arrested with 656 Automated Teller Machine debit cards connected to nine banks operating in Ghana and Nigeria. The 43-year-old Nigerian man who is facing two counts of electronic trafficking and stealing at the court was remanded after he pleaded not guilty to the offence, GhanaWeb reports.  During the court sitting on Monday, an Assistant State Attorney for the Republic told the High Court presided over by Justice Lydia Osei Marfo said the state has launched a new investigation into the activities of the accused. This was in reaction to his lawyers' attempts to seek bail for him at the High Court After an in-camera hearing between the lawyer of the Applicant and the court, the case was adjourned to February 28 for mention. While adjourning the case, Justice Osei Marfo said, "by reasons of new development from prosecution, which for security reasons cannot be disclosed in public but made know to counsel for the applicant in camera, this application cannot be heard until the investigations the Republic have launched into the alleged activities of the applicant are completed.” Aminou was arrested for possessing 656 ATM debit cards bearing different names. During interrogation, the prosecution led by ASP Yakubu said the accused claimed the ATM cards were given to him by one Rabiu Suleiman based in Kano State, Nigeria, to be given to one Baffa Bawarije, a Nigerian based in Daira Night City Hotel, Dubai. ASP Yakubu said preliminary investigations revealed that on September 12, 2021, the accused was arrested while boarding Ethiopia Airline E.T90 en route to Dubai. The prosecution said when the accused was searched, 656 ATM debit cards bearing different names were issued by eight Nigerian banks and one Ghanaian Bank respectively. He was also caught with $12,000. ASP Yakubu said further investigations showed that the accused first visited Ghana on April 29 last year through the Aflao border, and departed to Dubai on May 26. "Accused second visit to Ghana was on August 20 and was arrested the day of his departure to Dubai," the prosecution told the court.