A senior editor with the Imo Broadcasting Corporation, Mrs Ottih Vivian, has resigned from the media house.SaharaReporters had reported that Imo State Government in 2020 suspended Vivian for complaining of non-payment of her salaries and that of her colleagues. “For over two years now I have not been paid any salary after I was illegally suspended on the directives of the Commissioner of Information and Strategies, Chief Declan Emelumba who is on vendetta against me,” she said in a letter to the broadcasting corporation, dated February 1, 2022.  “Hence, till date, no disciplinary committee was set up to investigate the reasons as stated in the indefinite suspension letter which lasted for one year and five months neither was I found guilty in any other fomular. “The height of the insensitive to my well-being is the recent transfer to Lagos, knowing fully well the condition of my family having owed house rent for over two years and my children being out of school.”She had in a Facebook post in 2020 pleaded publicly to the state government to pay her colleagues and herself their over three months salaries. “Nwamkpa Modestus (Uzodinma's SSA) my dearest brother, from the blood and water we share as brother and sister, and as colleague in the journalism profession, you are the closest officer of His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Imo State, Chief Hope Uzodinma (Onwa Oyoko) to me,” she had posted. “Please my brother, help me inform our humble and performing governor that the entire staff of the only electronic media establishment owned by the state Imo Broadcasting Corporation, the famous Orient FM and Television have not received salaries for the month of February, March and April. "It could be that His Excellency is not aware of this ugly situation. My brother and colleague, the worst of the whole scenario is that, I your sister, who just put to bed barely three weeks now, is languishing in hunger, lack among others. "During the COVID-19 lockdown era, IBC staff were never found wanting on their duty post doing what they know how best to do on empty stomach and starvation."From my omugwo domain, I learnt that many have fallen sick without any kobo to seek medical services. The situation is as bad as that. Let me stop here so far as we wait for a fast positive response and reaction from His Excellency.” However, the government suspended Vivian, saying her action was ridiculous and aimed at sabotaging Governor Hope Uzodinma’s administration.