Hundreds of Nigerians and other nationals are currently freezing at locations around the Ukraine border after security officials refused to allow them entry into the neighboruing countries. The Nigerian government had on Saturday listed four borders in Ukraine where its citizens seeking to leave the country could be evacuated.  SaharaReporters was however told on Sunday that people could not move out and Nigerians were already freezing at the borders. “They are not allowing us to leave Ukrainian border. They are only evacuating their people to Slovak. We are stuck in Uzhgorod just before we enter Slovak. Can’t type much; we will walk into Slovak; the Ukrainian soldiers should just let us leave,” a Nigerian lamented. “They are not doing any paperwork here. They are taking most of their people. Out of like 200 people, we are the only blacks,” another victim said. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) had stated on Saturday that the borders are Hrebenne-Rawa Ruska, Korczowa-Krakowiec, Medyka-Szeginie and Budomierz-Hurszew.



See Also






International
Nigerian Diaspora Commission Lists Four Borders In Ukraine Where Citizens Can Cross To Safely
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “For Nigerians in Ukraine trying to cross over to Poland, there are eight borders between Poland and Ukraine, four borders are recommended,” she had said. “Nigeria volunteer groups, as well as staff of the Nigerian embassy, will be at these borders to help you out. We are going to provide contact details of these Nigerians that will be there to help you out and the convergence point.” The Embassy of Nigeria in Warsaw, Poland, in a public notice, had said officials and volunteers would be at the Polish-Ukrainian borders to pick up Nigerians. It, had therefore, advised Nigerians crossing over to Poland to present 02-953, Kosiarzy 22B, 02-956 Warszawa as the destination address to the border officials. “In light of the recent happenings in Ukraine; please be advised that for all Nigerians crossing over to Poland would have us waiting for them,” it said.



See Also






News
Russian Invasion: Only Seven Nigerian Students Out Of Stranded 400 In Ukraine Cross Into Poland
0 Comments
2 Days Ago “The Federal Government of Nigeria is making necessary arrangements for the evacuation of those stranded in Ukraine through the Embassy in Warsaw, Poland. “Please present this as your destination address with the Border controls 02-953, Kosiarzy 22B, 02-956 Warszawa. “The Nigerian Embassy staff and along with volunteers will be at the Polish-Ukrainian borders with buses and vans to pick up Nigerians from the crossing border points and locations below:”