Members of the African Action Congress (AAC) on Tuesday in Abuja stormed the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to protest the continued recognition of a usurper, Leonard Nzenwa as the National Chairman of the party. The party said the connivance by the electoral body with impostor to stage a fake, illegal and purported convention to hijack the party was in contravention of the party’s constitution and would not stand the test of time. The party, while submitting a protest letter signed by its Interim National Secretary, Okopi Agu, to the Chairman of the commission, said the electoral umpire should be worried about its public image, action, decision and tendencies which tend to paint the commission as a corrupt, oppressive and ‘cash-and-carry’ institution. The letter also demanded the immediate recognition of Omoyele Sowore as the National Chairman of AAC by the commission. It also demanded the recognition of other national officers who were elected alongside Sowore at the party’s convention in Lagos.The letter reads, "We write to vehemently protest the continued wrongful, illegal and indefensible reference to one Leonard Nzenwa as the National Chairman of African Action Congress by the INEC on the commission's website and on official correspondences relating to the decisions of the commission as they affect the AAC and to also reject the unconstitutional attempt to remove elected state chairmen. "There are insinuations that the said Nzenwa connived with certain elements within the commission to stage a fake, illegal and purported convention in clear contravention of the constitution AAC. "It is important to state emphatically that no convention known to law, no convention known to AAC constitution, no convention known to the statutory members of the AAC that convention was held in Owerri in Imo state on 9th August 2018. "We have been told that the commission relied on the judgement given in favour of the said Leonard Nzenwa in suit No FHC/ABJC5/512/2019 between Leonard Nzenwa V. Sowore Omoyele and others delivered by Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja on the 12th day of July, 2019 which is currently on appeal at the Court of Appeal, Abuja Judicial division.” The party also demanded a face-to-face meeting with the chairman of the commission to enable them to express their grievances. 