The Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams says the security challenge in the country has prevented Nigerians in the diaspora from coming back to the country.  Adams stated this during the 10th anniversary of Oodua Progressive Union and presentation of the book titled: ‘OPU globalizing Yoruba Value and Culture'.  He said: “Since its inception, OPU has morphed into a global brand with a diaspora organization in 96 countries across six continents of the world. But we still have about 40 countries that are yet to be launched officially. In the coming years, all these countries will be inaugurated officially.  “Our message is that of hope and to encourage our sons and daughter that no place like home, here in Nigeria we help them to protect their interest and ensure that they are not defrauded or victimized on any ground.”  Adams, the Global Convener of OPU, said the intention was to encourage business opportunities and also project the ideas of Yoruba cultural promotion.  He said: “Through our initiative, many, who have lost interest in coming back home because of the security situation in the country, are beginning to change their mind. The idea behind OPU is to improve the socio-economic prospects of all Yoruba sons and daughters abroad.”  Speaking on the idea behind the book which was unveiled in the presence of traditional leaders across different parts of the South-West, he said they intend to set the record straight and to rid the organisation of unnecessary misinterpretations.  Corroborating his views, Chairman Planning Committee and European Coordinator of OPU, Chief Victor Adewale, who led delegates of Yoruba sons and daughters across six continents of the world, said that they are happy to be back home.  Adewale said: “Part of the programmes organized for this anniversary was our visit to the motherless and old people’s home, where we gave a little of our kind gifts for their upkeeps. Also for OPU 10th anniversary, we embarked on various empowerments programmes for the widows and underprivileged people across the South-West.” 