Two young men, Atolagbe Qudus and Victor Kenneth, are currently languishing at the Kirikiri Prisons in Lagos State over their inability to get a legal counsel to argue their case bordering on a rape allegation. SaharaReporters learnt that the last time the duo were brought to court was in February 2021. NewsDiary Since then, they have had no hope of appearing again in court to argue their case. An activist, Adekunle Adeyemi Toafeek widely known as Scotty Aluta, who brought up the plight of the two men, urged human rights lawyers to do everything possible to seek the release of Qudus and Kenneth from the shackles of oppression. He said, “If you feel you have been wrongly accused of committing rape, you must take the rape allegations seriously. Even if you feel the allegations appear ridiculous, the consequences can be long-lasting in addition to being sent to prison. “I know of three young men who were been remanded at the Kirikiri Prison on false allegation of defiling two minors. One was able to get bail because his family was able to get him a good lawyer while the other two are still languishing in the prison for over four years. “The plaintiff (complainant) was at large and never showed up in every court hearing the moment she finds out people were aware she forged a fake doctors report stating the two minors were been defiled. “The other two young men were unlucky as their family couldn't get them a sound and learned lawyer instead they fell victim of the so called 'charge and bail lawyer'. All effort has been exhausted as their fate lies in miracle. “The most interesting part is the last time they appeared in court was February 2021, exactly a year today, which means they have no hope of appearing in court anytime soon and that would extend their stay in prison; four years gone and still counting. “I call on all well-meaning Nigerians and human right lawyers to do everything possible to seek the release of Atolagbe Qudus and Victor Kenneth from the shackles of oppression. “May we never be a victim of circumstance and may Nigeria never happen to us.”