Terrorists, locally known as bandits, have attacked over ten villages in the Lavun Local Government Area of Niger State resulting in the death of eight persons while several others sustained injuries of varying degrees. The bandits, numbering about 100, launched an attack on Egbako, Ndaruka, Ebbo, Ndagbegi, Tshogi, Gogata and Ndakogitu communities. Others are Satisu, Yekoko, Satifu and Sokiara communities in the council. File Photo According to Daily Post, the bandits stormed the villages on Saturday at 4 pm and continued operation till Sunday.  They reportedly ransacked each community and unleashed havoc on the residents and rustled an unconfirmed number of cattle.  A source told the newspaper that the bandits killed one person each at Ebbo, Tsonfadagabi, Tsogi and Kanko communities.  At Gbacitagi community, the bandits abducted a bride and another lady from a wedding ceremony after which they reportedly destroyed vehicles of well-wishers and other properties as well as carted away all monies realised at the wedding ceremony. They also rustled several cattle belonging to the villagers.  However, while heading out of Gbacitigi community towards Akere community in the Wushishi Local Government Area with the rustled animals, the source said, they got stranded as the only bridge connecting the village with Akere had collapsed.  This prompted them to abandon their loot and turn back to attack Satisu, Yekoko, Satifu and Sokiara.  Another source told the newspaper that the rampaging bandits were heading to the Batati community.  According to him, “Presently, the residents of Batati have fled their homes for fear of being attacked. We are calling on the government to come to our aid, we don’t have what to face them (bandits) with. Nobody is in that village now.”  Confirming the incident, the Executive Chairman, Lavun Local Government Council, Hon Alh Ibrahim Limanko Pata described the act as insane and unacceptable, adding that the gunmen stormed the area at about 4 pm on Saturday.  The council chairman in a press statement, signed by his media aide, Abu Shema Kutigi, stated that decisive actions would be taken by the government to guarantee the lives of the inhabitants of the vulnerable communities.  The state Commissioner for Local Government and Internal Security, Emmanuel Bagna Umar, confirmed the incident but stated that he had yet to receive full details.