A traditional ruler’s son and two internally displaced persons in Kautikari Village of Chibok Local Government Area of Borno State have been killed during an invasion of the village by fighters of the Islamic State for West African Province on Friday. Locals, who fled the village, gave the name of the traditional ruler’s son as Mr Bulama Wadir.  Recall that Kautikari was attacked in December 2021 and January 2022 where women and children were taken. Also, a church in the community was razed by the insurgents during the attacks. A local, Barka Amos, told Daily Post that the situation was better despite the recent attack compared to what they have experienced in the past. However, he said, he could not understand why the insurgents are so particular about Kautikari Village. “I was born here, I have no other place to go and I am tired of running. These people attacked this village all these years and I have been on the run ever since. I think I should stop running at 56 years old,” he said. According to him, he did not move from his house when his kinsmen took to their heels when they heard the first gunshot. “My brother and brother-in-law fled. They asked me to come with them but I refused. It is not about being brave. It is about getting tired of running. I have seen people who run and get killed. I reserved myself to fate now,” he added. Kautikari, just a few kilometres away from Chibok town, came under deadly attacks and abductions of over 10 people mostly women and children on 1st January 2022, setting ablaze one of the largest churches in the community bordering Sambisa Forest. Amos said he had buried many of his kinsmen and relations who were killed by Boko Haram, adding that many of their sons and daughters abducted are still nowhere to be found. He said, “Government has abandoned us. The insurgents always come and do whatever they want and go back to come back another day. There was no time that security operatives came to defend us here, none that I could recall. All you here is the same story.” Attacks in Chibok areas and particularly the recent one in January 2022 made the Borno State governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, visit the area and encourage the people as well as the security operatives stationed in the local government. During his visits, the governor met with the families of 22 women and two men abducted by the insurgents where he encouraged them and asked them to continue to trust in God through prayers.