As the Russia-Ukraine crisis rages on, 40 Ukrainian civil society organisations have issued the Kyiv Declaration, putting six urgent appeals before the international community. Coordinating via encrypted apps, and face to face in underground shelters, signatories include the Ukrainian Helsinki Group for Human Rights, Come Back Alive, Ukraine Crisis Media Centre and Women's Perspectives.The CSOs are calling on the world to act now by standing with Ukraine. SaharaReporters Media From establishing safe zones to provide sanctuary for civilians, to providing air defence systems and anti-tank weaponry, the Kyiv Declaration sets out six humanitarian and military needs of a country under attack. Lyubov Maksymovych, Chair of Women's Perspectives, said: “We are issuing this declaration on behalf of Ukrainian women and men who stand together to fight for their liberty and freedoms. “At this moment, it’s not too late to draw a line in the sand, here in Ukraine rather than through the centre of Europe - which is what will happen if we fail. We hope that western powers have learnt from the long failures of appeasement, and the obvious duplicity and inhumanity of Vladimir Putin. This is the most important declaration I have ever signed. If it is not answered, it could also be my last.” 



See Also






International
Ukraine: Putin Puts Russia's Nuclear Forces On High Alert, Increases Readiness To Launch
0 Comments
4 Hours Ago





Olga Aivazovska, Chair of Elections Watchdog, Opora, said: “Now is the moment the world must demonstrate its support not only for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, but also for the values of democracy, human rights and freedom. With the Kyiv declaration, we ask for your help in defeating an autocratic dictator to defend not only Ukraine but the whole democratic world and the principles it is founded on.” Also, Oleksandr Pavlichenko, the Executive Director of Ukrainian Helsinki Group for Human Rights, said: “Vladimir Putin and his henchmen believe they are above the law, that they can get away with this bloodshed because the world needs their gas and oil. “We must prove them wrong. We must expose the truth. We must hold them to account in a court of law. Our declaration calls for the documentation and prosecution of their war crimes - the slain civilians, murdered children, the bombing of peaceful cities. Vladimir Putin must answer for his crimes against the Ukrainian people.” The Kyiv Declaration The 40 Ukrainian civil society groups – “are asking the international community to stand with Ukraine by demanding the international community take the following actions.” Their appeals are to establish safe zones in Ukraine - To provide sanctuary for civilians from both air and ground attacks and to help prevent a tide of refugees fleeing to Europe; Provide immediate defensive military aid - including lethal and non-lethal assistance; Implement crippling sanctions to undermine Putin’s war machine; Provide immediate humanitarian aid; Freeze the assets and revoke the visas of Putin’s cronies, and Provide equipment to track war crimes immediately.This six-point appeal has been signed by 40 Ukrainian civil society organisations in Kyiv and other cities under siege.The organisations are:1. Ukraine Crisis Media Centre, Nataliya Popovych 2. Civic Network Opora, Olga Aivazovska 3. Ukrainian Helsinki Group for Human Rights, Oleksandr Pavlichenko 4. Plast, Natalia Kolesnyk 5. Public Interest Journalism Lab, Natalia Gumeniuk 6. ZMINA Centre for Human Rights, Tetyana Pechonchyk 7. Ukrainian Institute London, Olesya Khomeychuk 8. Vostok SOS, Kostiantyn Reutskyi 9. ISAR Yednannia, Volodymyr Sheyhus 10. StopFake, Yevhen Fedchenko 11. Ukrainian Centre for Independent Policy Research, Yuliya Tyshchenko 12. Ukrainian Catholic University, Fr. Dr. Bohdan Prach 13. Centre for Civil Liberties, Oleksandra Matviichuk 14. Global Ukraine, Violeta Moskalu 15. DixyGroup, Olena Pavlenko 16. Vox Ukraine, Svitlana Slipchenko 17. Izolyatsia Platform for Cultural Initiatives, Mykhailo Glubokyi 18. Hromadske TV, Yuliia Fediv 19. Detector Media, Galyna Petrenko 20. European Experts Association, Maria Avdeeva 21. Come BackAlive, Taras Chmut 22. Women’s Perspectives, Lyubov Maksymovych 23. PEN Ukraine, Tetyana Teren 24. Agency for Legislative Initiatives, Svitlana Matviienko 25. Ukraine Analytica, Hanna Shelest 26. Smoloskyp Publishers, Rostyslav Shemkiv 27. Kyiv Security Forum, Danylo Lubkivsky 28. ProMova, Yevhen Hlibovytsky 29. Vaad of Ukraine, Josef Zissels 30. Democracy Development Initiative, Ksenia Kosheleva 31. Euromaidan SOS, Veronika Puhach 32. Institute of Mass Information, Oksana Romaniuk 33. Election Council UA, Yevhen Bystrytsky 34. Skovoroda Institute of Philosophy, National Academy of Science of Ukraine, Prof. Ihor Kozlovskyi 35. Ostroh Academy, Prof. Andrii Smyrnov 36. Centre for Perspective Initiatives and Studies, Mykhailo Rudenko 37. Iskra Centre for Dialogue and Reconciliation, Irena Remestwenski 38. Regional Rada of Ukrainians in Crimea, Andriy Ivanets 39. Kyiv Mohyla Academy, Prof. Konstantin Sigov 40. Institute of Information Security, Artem Bidenko