There was a pandemonium Monday as an unidentified policeman attached to the Anti-Kidnap Squad, Delta state police command, killed his colleague while following a suspect to his house to collect N20,000 bribe, SaharaReporters has learnt.   The tragic incident occurred around 6:00 pm by ADP along Ibusa Road at Ibusa in the Oshimili North Local Government Area of the state. File photo used to illustrate story.  Narrating the incident to SaharaReporters, the suspect who was allegedly being harassed by the policemen, identified as Nicholas, said, on Monday, he drove from Ibusa to Asaba to look for fuel to buy following the scarcity of fuel in his area.   "As I was going back home at about 5:30 pm, I met a team of policemen along the Ibusa Road, Asaba, and they stopped me for a search. After checking my car and vehicle papers as demanded, nothing incriminating was found in me and all my car documents were up to date. But the team still demanded a bribe of N50,000 from me or I would be taken to the police headquarters where I would be detained. “All my plea to them that I am hypertensive and asthmatic fell on deaf ears as they insisted that I must give them N50,000. I told them I didn't have a dime with me and they asked to know the amount of money I had. "Following my health condition and with the way and manner the police treat people and put innocent people in jail, where some lose their lives, I told them I had N20,000 at home. Two of the officers were delegated to follow me home to collect the N20,000. On our way to Ibusa where I reside, my car ran out of fuel and it stopped. At that point, the policemen started shouting at me and an argument ensued between us. One of the policemen shot my rear tyre and that attracted a crowd of people. "Even, some soldiers who were passing by stopped and the crowd asked the policemen to allow me to go since I committed no offence but they refused. After shooting my tyre, I said I would not go anywhere again. As the argument was still going on, the same policeman who shot my tyre was about to raise his gun again when it accidentally discharged and the bullet hit his colleague directly in the head. He died on the spot. At this time, everybody including myself started running for our dear lives. We learnt his body has been deposited in a mortuary in Asaba." When contacted for comments on the issue, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe denied the story, saying, "So you want me to confirm this kind of nonsense story? Well, I am not aware of such a story." However, a police officer attached to the state police command, Asaba, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the incident, saying, "Yes, one of our colleagues attached to the Anti-Kidnap Squad at the state headquarters, Asaba killed his colleague through accidental discharge while on their way to collect a bribe of N20,000 from their victim. His body has been taken to the mortuary since yesterday."