The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have split the council areas in the Federal Capital Territory between them, winning three each in Saturday’s poll. The APC won in Kwali, Abaji and Gwagwalada Council Areas while the PDP took Abuja Municipal Council Area (AMAC), Bwari and Kuje Council Areas.  SaharaReporters earlier reported that Jubrin Abubakar, candidate of the APC, was declared the Chairman-elect of Gwagwalada Council Area. He defeated his opponent, Mohammed Kassim of the PDP as he garnered 11,125 votes and was declared by the INEC Returning Officer, ID Umar, as the winner of the keenly contested election. Meanwhile, Kassim of the PDP polled 9,597 votes. In Kwali Area Council, the incumbent chairman, Danladi Chiya of the APC polled 7,646 votes and was declared the winner. He defeated his closest rival, Haruna Pai of the PDP who had 7,345 votes. In Abaji Council Area, the APC was declared the winner but no candidate was announced because of pending litigation. INEC Returning Officer, Prof Gabriel Mordi, said the APC had 7, 289 votes to defeat the candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Yahaya Garba Gawu, who had 4, 062 votes. Prof Mordi, said the winner will be announced after the determination of the litigation being heard at the Supreme Court in Abuja. In Kuje, the PDP candidate, Suleman Sabo, had 13,301 votes to defeat his closest rival, Sarki Hamidu of the APC, who had 7,694 votes. Sabo was declared the winner by the INEC Returning Officer for the Kuje Area Council election, Sule Magaji.This means that Sabo, the council's current chairman will be in office for a second term after he defeated five candidates in each of the 10 wards in the area council. PDP candidate, John Gabaya, was declared the winner of the Bwari election. Gabaya polled 13,045 votes to beat his closest rival, Mr Audi Shekwolo of the APC, who had 7,697 votes.The PDP candidate, Christopher Zakka won in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). He had 19,302 votes, beating the APC candidate, Murtala Usman, who had 13,240 votes