An operative of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abuja, Okechukwu Johnson Obuba has been accused of raping a 9-year-old girl (name and photos withheld) whom he took from her family to nurture after the death of her parents. According to Reference Daily News, the victim’s uncle said when she lost her parents, the NSCDC officer approached the family, saying he would take good care of her. NSCDC “The girl arrived in Abuja in February 2018 when she was 9-years-old and Okechukwu who hails from Amaekpu, in the Ohafia local government area of Abia State started raping her, and threatened to kill her if she opened up to anyone about the issue. Most times he comes with a knife in his hand to rape her,” he said. “The NSCDC officer continued to defile and violate my niece; even the wife, Oluchi Jennifer Okechukwu, who is also a senior officer in the NSCDC, Abuja, knew what the husband was doing but she also threatened the girl not to tell anyone about it. “We got to know about Okechukwu's atrocities last December when he and his family came to the village and our family members saw the way our niece was looking and we became suspicious. Even before then, the young girl started separating herself from Okechukwu's family, saying she did not want to go back to Abuja with them. “After the whole revelations, Okechukwu sent some of his family members to come and plead with us that he was ready to take the girl for medical check-ups because the girl's private parts had been badly damaged and she was no longer herself. We were on the matter and Okechukwu went back to Abuja and since then, we have been looking for a way to track him.” Another relation of the girl claimed she contracted gonorrhoea and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) from Okechukwu. She said the girl can no longer walk properly, adding that a very foul smell comes out of her private parts.The family member added that there are fears that her womb has been damaged because Okechukwu was giving her many pills to swallow after defiling her. When contacted, according to the publication, the NSCDC operative allegedly claimed he had apologised and given the family N40,000 for medication and was to pay a balance of N20,000. He was also quoted to have said he liked the girl and bought her things. He also claimed that he and his wife do not have gonorrhoea or HIV.