No fewer than 1,823 students and teachers have been victims of insurgent attacks on schools between April 2014 and January 2021, a factsheet by SB Morgen Intel has revealed. According to the SBM report released on Thursday, there were 28 incidents of attacks on schools in Nigeria within the period of study; from the Chibok girls' incidence on April 14, 2014, in Borno to the Barkin Ladin attack on January 12th 2021 in Plateau State. Students Writing WAEC So far, 1, 799 students were attacked while 24 teachers fell victim to the attacks. The report further analysed the sources of attack to include: 23 perpetrated by armed bandits; 3 attacks by Islamist terrorists and 2 by unknown gunmen. School attacks were prevalent in the Northwest region with 1,166 students recorded to have fallen victim within the period. This is followed by the North East region where 386 students were attacked. “There are incidents of attack involving students in four geopolitical zones of Northwest, Northeast, Northcentral and Southeast. The Northern part of Nigeria accounts for almost all the attack cases. The Northwest accounts for the highest number of students, 1, 166 students were involved in school attack incidents. “This is followed by the North East with 386 students, North Central (240) and Southeast. On the other hand, attacks involving teachers were only in the North-west and the Northcentral. The Northwest has the highest number of attacks involving teachers followed by the North Central," a part of the report reads. Meanwhile, the report noted that the attacks were largely directed at students in secondary schools who make up 1, 704 of the 1, 799 students. In February 2021, the United Nations Mission in Nigeria warned the Nigerian Government that attacks by bandits on schools in the country put future generations under threat. The UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria, Mr. Edward Kallon, who raised alarm, noted that the collective future of Nigeria is under threat. Edward, who condemned the situation, warned the Nigerian Government about the dangers of attacks on schools and abduction of students.