Manchester United footballer, Mason Greenwood has been further arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and making threats to kill. The 20-year-old was arrested on suspicion of rape and assault on Sunday, BBC News reports.  Greater Manchester Police (GMP) said it had been granted more time to question him having previously been given an extension on Monday. The 20-year-old striker made his debut for the club in March 2019. Manchester United have said he will not play for the club until further notice. GMP said the player was arrested on Sunday after the force "became aware of online social media images and videos posted by a woman reporting incidents of physical violence". It said magistrates had granted a second extension to keep him in custody until Wednesday. A force spokesman said inquiries were ongoing and a woman was being "offered specialist support". Greenwood, who made his debut for the club in March 2019, signed a four-year deal in February 2021 after rising through the ranks of the academy. Manchester United said on Sunday the club "did not condone violence of any kind" and had been made aware of the allegations but would make no further comment until the "facts have been established". Greenwood was earlier removed from FIFA 22 by EA Sports. Following the latest database update, which was released on all platforms including PlayStation, Xbox and PC on Tuesday, February 1, 2021, Greenwood no longer features on the popular football simulation gaming title in offline modes and has been removed from the United squad. However, the forward's FIFA 22 Ultimate Team item remains active, and can still be traded on the FUT 22 transfer market. Following the striker's suspension from FIFA 22 on Tuesday, February 1, 2022, EA Sports has now issued a statement confirming his suspension from the game, giving more details about which game modes he has been suspended from. "Mason Greenwood has been removed from active squads in FIFA 22 and has also been suspended from appearing in FIFA Ultimate Team (FUT) packs and Ultimate Draft," an EA Sports spokesperson had told Manchester Evening News.