The Indigenous People of Biafra has accused governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, of allegedly masterminding the incessant abductions and killings in the state in collaboration with security operatives. In a statement by Emmanuel Powerful, its spokesperson, the group said the launch of Ebubeagu security outfit had worsened the level of insecurity in the state.  IPOB said in collaboration with the Nigerian Army and other security operatives, Ebubeagu had killed several innocent youth simply because of their support for Biafra. The group blasted the governor for clamping down on Biafran agitators while bandits and Fulani terrorists go unchallenged. It called on the United Nations and other international bodies to intervene in the matter. The statement reads, "The Indigenous People of Biafra ably led by Nnamdi Kanu hereby raise the alarm over the incessant abductions and killings going on in Imo State and other states in the South-East region by Nigerian security agents employed by Hope Uzodinma and his criminal allies. “The criminal gangs of the infamous Ebubeagu security outfit with the joint task force of compromised Nigerian Army and police have eliminated scores of innocent youth in many communities in Orsu and Orlu LGAs of Imo State. Those who were lucky to escape their bullets they chased out of their ancestral land. Women and children were not spared in this brutal wickedness. "The list of hapless communities affected by the evil action of Uzodinma and his partners in crime include but are not limited to the following Oboh Umutanze, Attah, Okporo, Amaifeke, Ihioma, Ama-azu, Amannachi, Nnempi, Akata, Orsuihiteukwa, and Umutanze. "It is imperative to call Uzodinma and his criminal gang to order and ask him why he used soldiers and police personnel to eliminate innocent Imo youth. Mortuaries across Imo State especially in Owerri are filled with unclaimed corpses who are buried in a mass grave or destroyed with acid from time to time. The atrocities committed by Uzodinma extends to many communities in the South-Eastern region. "We are asking Uzodinma and his APC party why they derive joy in killing innocent Biafra youth while Fulani bandits and terrorists go unchallenged in their killing spree across Nigeria? What crime did Imo youth commit to deserve the ongoing secret genocide in the state? "We call on the United Nations, America, British High Commissioner, Israeli Ambassador, German Ambassador, French Ambassador, Canadian Ambassador, Japanese Ambassador, Australian Ambassador, Amnesty International, Intersociety groups, Human Rights Watch and all Human Rights Organisations across the globe to send an investigation team to these communities and find out what the situation is. “They will confirm to their amazement that nobody is dwelling in these communities. Imo youths and people have been indiscriminately and mercilessly killed by Fulani terrorist soldiers deployed in Imo State by the Federal Government in collaboration with Uzodinma. "The incessant killing of the youths of these communities has turned the affected communities into ghost towns. IPOB is out now to expose these atrocities committed by Uzodinma, Nigerian Army and police including Ebubeagu security outfit. "It's too appalling that Ebubeagu security outfit would join hands in killing our people and call them unknown gunmen. History will judge them all."