Some unidentified gunmen have killed a Nigerian soldier during an attack on the military base at Oduma, Enugu State. In a disturbing video trending online, the assailants were seen setting fire on a white military Hilux van with a soldier likely shot by them, in it. File photo used to illustrate story. The gunmen numbering about four in hooded attire and masks also set fire on a black Toyota vehicle which was opposite the military vehicle. They were later heard saying, “Let's move.” https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=3251873878432644&id=100008301901669 https://fb.watch/b4J4UqdXCk/ An unknown person recording the video said, “This is the military checkpoint in Oduma, Enugu State. Can you see them, unknown gunmen in operation, here at the military checkpoint in Oduma? These are unknown gunmen.” Later on, about three military officers arrived at the scene of the incident after the vehicles had burnt to a certain degree. They are heard lamenting the misfortune that had befallen one of them in another video. "Na soldier na," someone said, “That soldier told me they gunned someone down, he told me. I asked him, how many soldiers do you have?" A military man replied, “Three of the other soldiers were on duty, I decided to take a rest, myself and one other soldier before I learnt of this attack. We don't know the whereabouts of the other two soldiers. “This is the worst thing and we don't have soldiers. Even yesterday when they wanted to come for one of my soldiers, I said we're short of manpower.” From the conversation, it was noted that only the white Hilux belonged to the Nigerian Army while the other black SUV that was burnt, probably belonged to a civilian. Some social media users have blamed the attack on the Eastern Security Network, the security wing of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) even though the assailants never mentioned their affiliation to IPOB. Many of the nefarious activities in the region are blamed on IPOB despite several denials by the group. Meanwhile, there are other groups agitating for Biafra such as the Biafra National Guard, BNG.