An Adamawa State-based coalition of Atiku Support groups, has disclosed why its members joined the nationwide protest urging the former Vice president, Atiku Abubakar, not to contest the 2023 presidential election. The coalition described Atiku as a diaspora politician who had lost touch with the present needs of the country; particularly how to reunite the bitterly divided nation.  According to the groups, the job of Nigeria's next president cannot be entrusted to those who only show up every election season. Ahmadu Maunde, one of the coalition's leaders noted that Governor Samuel Ortom had on February 6, 2022, raised the red flag for Atiku to discern what to expect 2023. Maunde said, “Governor Ortom had told Atiku that Benue people were not happy with him for abandoning them during their trying times. "The governor confronted Atiku with hard facts at the Government House in Makurdi when he received the former Vice President and his campaign team during a visit. Even our governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, had recently while canvassing support for him, admitted that the former VP was “good but not the best.” And I think Nigeria now deserves the best. With these and other reasons advanced, Maunde asserted, "Atiku's approval rating has drastically dropped, hence the need for him to take the back seat in 2023.” “The challenges facing our country are enormous, that's why we don't need a diaspora president in 2023. This man (Atiku) we've followed over the years, but sadly he abandons us for safe haven in Dubai after every election,” he added. SaharaReporters had on Tuesday reported that ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a protest against the presidential aspiration of the former vice president erupted simultaneously, Monday, in Lagos, Adamawa, Kaduna, Plateau and Benue states. The protesters were former support groups for Atiku’s presidential bid in 2019, who said he should shelve the ambition for the South-East region to emerge as Nigeria’s president come 2023. “We for our part have promoted the candidature of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for years, but we humbly call on the former vice president to do us a good turn in return for the many good turns we have done for him. We have sacrificed a lot pushing for the presidency of Atiku Abubakar all these years, even though we have been abandoned by him after each election cycle, it is time for him to project national interest outside of his need to become president. At almost 80years, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar does not have enough in the tank to put in the high level of physical and mental effort required to fix Nigeria", Mohammed Garba and Abubakar Sanni had said.