Bishop Wale Oke, President Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), has said God would raise young leaders to rewrite the history of Nigeria while chiding corrupt leaders who divert public funds for personal gains. The founder and Presiding Bishop of Sword of The Spirit Ministries International made this known on Thursday at the 12th Annual Thanksgiving of Independent Newspapers Limited (INL), tagged ‘Lift Up Your Heads O Ye Gates’, held at its corporate headquarters, Wempco, Ogba, Ikeja, Lagos.  Oke represented by Archbishop Joseph Ojo, Calvary Kingdom Church and National Chairman State Inauguration Committee of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), at the special event organised by the INL Christian Fellowship, linked the selfishness of many Nigerian leaders to the present predicament of the nation. The guest minister, however, asked Nigerians not to fret but to see through the eyes of faith and be patriotic, as God was at work and would cause them to surmount insecurity and other challenges. On the 2023 general elections, Oke called on the Nigerian electorates, particularly Christians not to be docile but to be actively involved and choose wisely. “There is hope a change is coming I believe it with all my heart insecurity will be a thing of the past very soon. I am sure because God is at work we should lift our heads and see insecurity and see beyond bandits, Boko Haram. Some of us have the eyes of faith. “When the servant of Elisha told him that we perish, he said ‘do not be afraid those that be for us are more than those that be against us.’ So there are forces working in favour of this country more than the forces that we think are challenging us. I believe there is hope. “Nigerians should not be selfish they should be patriotic, we see selfishness in many of our leaders, and they want to amass wealth for their family no matter forgetting that what they amass would dwindle after their demise. God is raising a crop of leaders that are patriotic, if our leaders are patriotic definitely changes will come,” Oke stated. He added: “The 2023 general elections is in the hands of God because He rules in the affairs of men and gives to whomever He wills. God is in charge of this country. The politicians should look beyond their tenure and leave a legacy that others will emulate. I believe God will raise young people that have never been politicians and give them the spirit to rewrite the history of this country. “Political leaders want to be recycling themselves, voters should see beyond these class of persons and look for people that are patriotic. Patriotism is the word if people are not patriotic they will always think only about themselves and their families. God's words say ‘what shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world and lose his soul.’” The cleric stated further: “In PFN we have an arm tailored towards educating Christians to belong to a political party, get their permanent voters card and get ready for the election. When things are done the way it should be it is the voters who determine who their leaders should be and you cannot be a voter without the voters’ card, we encourage you to be actively involved.” In line with the programme’s theme, Pastor Funso Odesola, Assistant General Overseer (Admin&Personnel) and Continental Overseer Africa Continent 3 (Southwest Nigeria and Middle East), The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), spoke on ‘Gates’, which he said could be a source of blessings by God and could be used by the enemy to hinder progress. He emphasised the need for obedience to God’s words as a gateway to progress. Odesola represented by Pastor Femi Olunuga, Pastor-in-Charge, RCCG Province 70, Region 1, as well led prayers for the progress of the company and the staff while cautioning against laziness and procrastination. Mr. Steve Omanufeme, Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, appreciated God for His mercy and also thanked the guest ministers. In his remarks, he asked INL staff to be hopeful and brace up for the progress and opportunities ahead. Omanufeme represented by Mr. Don Okere, Daily Editor, stated: “I see hope, what we just demand is all of us reciprocating the gestures of the management. People are already pessimistic. This is our year of progress, opportunities. Let us persevere, work, not be lackadaisical, and Key into the progress that is coming.”