Former Governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, has called the fresh fraud allegations against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission as the handiwork of his political opponents. Okorocha, an All Progressives Congress chieftain and presidential aspirant also said that the anti-graft agency had flouted orders of the court, which forbade it to abuse his human rights. @REALROCHAS/TWITTER The former governor spoke on a Channels Television’s programme on Monday. SaharaReporters had reported that the Commission on Monday filed N2.9billion fraud charges against the Imo West Senator. The fresh fraud charges were filed at the Federal High Court, Abuja, hours after the former governor officially declared his presidential ambition for 2023.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Anti-graft Agency, EFCC, Charges Ex-Imo Governor, Okorocha, With N2.9billion Fraud
0 Comments
19 Hours Ago In the 17 counts filed on Monday, EFCC alleged that he conspired to steal N2.9bn public funds but the presidential hopeful denied the allegation, describing it as “false”. He said, “The story of Rochas and EFCC and the story of Rochas and Imo State have been a long-dragging one. Actually, I am not aware of N2.8billion suit but what I do know is that the stage I find myself with EFCC is that I have an order against EFCC from Federal High Court on my human rights abuses and the EFCC refused to obey that order. Again, the EFCC asked the judge to recuse himself or resign from the case. “It’s been one drama or the other but what is happening, I don’t want to say it is politically motivated but it is looking more like it. EFCC is an investigation agency but EFCC should please try and not make it look like a political issue and obey simple court directives. They should try and investigate the matter and get real facts before they start advancing some of the actions they take. “Now, I am declaring today and they are filing a case against me today; that goes a long way that there is some kind of political undertone in this matter. I have my respect for EFCC and I want them to do the proper thing, it will help our nation and the image of our government.” Okorocha had been questioned a few times by the anti-graft agency over alleged financial fraud and some of his property and those owned by his family members had been seized by the government of his successor, Hope Uzodinma. However, but he has persistently insisted that he is not guilty of any of the allegations as no court of law in the country has declared him guilty.