A Nigerian woman simply identified as Duduke has raised the alarm over the alleged assassination of her uncle known as Femi. The attack was captured in CCTV footage, showing masked men in army uniforms assaulting the man identified as Femi. He was thereafter bundled into a vehicle and taken away.  The footage, however, did not show how he was killed, but Duduke said he was shot in the head.  In a series of posts on Tuesday, Duduke said the incident occurred on Sunday at Osofem Oil and Gas, NITEL Bus-Stop in Ifo, Ogun State around 10 pm.  According to her, the victim was about to go home from work when men in Nigerian army uniforms suddenly attacked him.  Duduke said her uncle attempted to escape but the attackers shot him in the head and took his car away after the murder.  Using the hashtag #JusticeForFemi, Duduke, who accompanied the post with footage from the scene of the incident, called on Nigerians to help ensure that those behind her uncle's death are brought to justice.  "Please help me Nigerians my uncle was assassinated at his office please help me make this trend let the whole world see what they did to my uncle, they all wore army uniforms," she wrote.  "This happened at Osofem oil and gas, Nitel bus-stop at Ifo, Ogun state around 10 pm. They were all in soldier uniforms. This happened at Osofem oil and gas, NITEL bus-stop at Ifo, Ogun state around 10 pm on Sunday ... he was about going home when they came to attack him ... he tried to escape they shot him on the head took his car and money and went away.  "The car they stole is Silver Toyota Corolla 2010 with registration number EKY903GZ. Going home from work ... he owns Osofem oil and gas, that was where the incident happened. Silver Toyota corolla 2010 with registration number EKY903GZ.”  Please help me Nigerians my uncle was assassinated at his office please help me make this trend let the whole world see what they did to my uncle,they all wore army uniforms ...#AshewoSpace pic.twitter.com/jz2xQIIwJ1 This happened at Osofem oil and gas ,nitel bus-stop at Ifo,Ogunstate around 10pm Silver Toyota corolla 2010 with registration number EKY903GZ pic.twitter.com/WL0it7SREs  When contacted, the Ogun state police spokesperson, Oyeyemi Abimbola, who confirmed the incident to SaharaReporters, described it as a case of armed robbery. Oyeyemi said the robbers adorned military camouflage as a disguise.  “It is a case of armed robbery. They cannot just rush to a conclusion that the attackers are soldiers. The information we heard is that they are on army camouflage, it is a pure case of armed robbery and we have commenced investigation into it,” he said.