A video, which has now gone viral on social media shows the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu with suspected pee stains on his cloth during a visit to the Awujale of Ijebuland. Tinubu, who was seated on a black leather couch alongside some other party stalwarts had risen to give a speech but his attire had soaked from behind, particularly at the butt area.  The politician's security aide was seen constantly holding his nose while looking at the wet area as another woman immediately wore her face mask as the Asiwaju rose up to speak. This has piqued the interest of many Nigerians who insisted the wetness of the attire at the spot was urine. Others, however, argued that it might be sweat resulting from the long period of sitting on a leather couch. Meanwhile, there have been concerns over Tinubu's presidential ambition considering his health challenges. Recall that last month, Tinubu had informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his ambition to contest the position of president in 2023. Tinubu also paid visits to some Northern states including Niger and Katsina to sell his ambition. He had also met with the former dictator, who annulled June 12, 1993, presidential election, General Ibrahim Babangida, over his plans to be President of Nigeria.Unconfirmed reports said Tinubu took a long time to get off the aircraft when he visited Niger State, and that he had to be assisted to get down.  There were also allegations that he had to visit the toilet many times on the flight back to Abuja, which is about 20 minutes. SaharaReporters had reported that Tinubu, amidst his ambition for the 2023 presidential race to succeed Muhammadu Buhari, spent over four months patronising hospitals in France, the United States and the United Kingdom where he underwent several surgeries. He was flown out of the country some days to Christmas in 2020 to Paris, France. The APC leader returned to Nigeria on January 24, 2021, after a month absence from Nigeria. 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Barely Three Weeks After Declaring Interest In 2023 Presidency, Tinubu Travels Out for Medicals
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago





He also went for a medical check-up on Thursday, June 10 to France and was conspicuously absent from the one-day working visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Lagos State. Tinubu, amidst death rumours, was forced to return to the country on Tuesday, June 15. SaharaReporters also reported that Tinubu was hospitalised in Maryland, the United States in July 2021. On August 9, the APC leader had another knee surgery at the John Hopkins University Hospital in Maryland, the United States. The APC chieftain, it was learnt, left the US for the United Kingdom on crutches, a few days after the surgery. Sources close to Tinubu had told SaharaReporters that he wanted the surgery in Paris, France but changed his plan over rumours of his death. In August, President Muhammadu Buhari paid a visit to Tinubu in London and the latter was seen with a walking stick during Buhari’s visit, confirming SaharaReporters’ story that he underwent a second surgery in the United States. His London home also became a mecca of sorts as he was visited by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Governors Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), and Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti). Upon his return in October, Tinubu confirmed that he underwent surgery on his right knee as well as rigorous post-surgery physiotherapy on the said knee during his medical trip abroad. Some days ago, Tinubu returned to the country after going out of the country for medical attention in the United Kingdom for 10 days.