Nigeria is among the countries to benefit as a project aimed at eliminating Hepatitis C in Africa is set to take off in Ethiopia.  In a statement obtained by SaharaReporters, the £2.2 million project would be led by an expert from a UK-based university who championed the eradication of the ailment in a Scottish region.  It said an “expert from a leading UK university who led work on effectively eliminating Hepatitis C in a Scottish region, the first in the world to do so, will spearhead a £2.2 million project in Ethiopia that has the potential to benefit future elimination efforts in Nigeria”. The statement said the DESTINE project will bring together the Universities of Dundee and Bristol and Scottish health boards with several medical schools and other key institutions in Ethiopia.  According to the statement, the team will investigate the extent of Hepatitis C (HCV) infection in the country using epidemiological and modelling techniques. It added that they will then design care based around treatment pathways created in the UK but moulded to suit the Ethiopian context.  The collaboration will be led by John Dillon, Professor of hepatology and gastroenterology at the University of Dundee and consultant hepatologist at NHS (National Health Service) Tayside.  Dillon said the DESTINE, funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), would help address a desperate need for effective HCV strategies in countries like Ethiopia.  He said: “The World Health Organisation has set a target for the world to eliminate HCV by 2030 and, while many of the more developed countries have put plans in place to reach this target, this has been more difficult in low- and middle-income countries. For example, in Ethiopia, the number of people living with HCV infection is not known, although estimates suggest it may be around 3 million.  “Our work in Tayside largely centred around removing the barriers faced by patients. We knew that at each step of the pathway we lost people, so the aim was to make the steps smaller and simpler. That is the principle we will be applying to the Ethiopian context.  “The project will explore ways of delivering HCV testing and cure, in ways that work with the novel and evolving ways of delivering health care in Ethiopia. The outputs of this research will be useful in countries across Africa similarly affected by HCV."  Hepatitis C (HCV) is a blood-borne virus which affects the liver and can lead to cirrhosis, liver failure or liver cancer.  It is estimated that around 90% of HCV infections occur in people who inject drugs or have previously done so, through sharing needles.  