The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has released the details of the property seized from an unnamed top military officer in the country.The development comes a day after the anti-graft agency got a court order for the final forfeiture of the property worth N11 billion to the Nigerian Government. Justice N. E. Maha of the Federal High Court Abuja permitted the agency for final forfeiture of the army officer’s property to the Nigerian Government. The order was pursuant to a forfeiture application by EFCC, which had in May 2020 secured the interim forfeiture of the property, which it claimed were secured with proceeds of economic crime.The new list contains 24 landed assets valued at N10.9 billion, a sharp increase from the N3 billion given as the worth of the property in the commission’s earlier statement on Monday.According to the commission, the assets include about nine filling stations with a total of 300 pumps scattered in Kano.They also include an LPG plant with 30 shops, an event centre, a three-storey plaza with 28 shops, and a block industry, all in Kano.The 24 possessions scattered across Kano, Kaduna, Borno and the Cross River states, comprise land, shopping complex, gas station and fuel stations, event centres, block factories and plastic production factory, cumulatively valued at N10.9 billion.Before the final forfeiture on Monday, the court had ordered the publication of notices in national newspapers, inviting persons with interest in them to show cause why they should not be finally forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria.However, no such interest was shown by any entity and Justice Maha ordered the final forfeiture of the property to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Meanwhile, a statement by the spokesman for the EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren said: “The 24 properties scattered across Kano, Kaduna, Borno and Cross River States, comprise land, shopping complex, gas station and fuel stations cumulatively valued at N10, 935,000,000.00. (Ten Billion, Nine Hundred and Thirty-Five Million Naira)"The properties are:1. A 16 pump filling station located at Rijiyar Lemo, Kano.2. A filling station with 41 pumps located opposite Federal Secretariat, Kano.3. A filling station with 39 pumps located along BUK Road, Kano.4. A filling station with 31 pumps located along Zaria Bypass, Kano.5. A filling station with 31 pumps located along Maiduguri Bypass, Kano.6. A filling station with 29 pumps located along Maiduguri Bypass, Kano.7. A filling station with 23 pumps located along Naibawa, Kano.8. A filling station with 39 pumps located along Bachirawa, Kano.9. A filling station with 51 pumps and a one-storey building with 35 shops attached to the Filling Station located along Shiek Ja’afar Road Dorayi, Kano.10. An LPG plant with 30 shops attached to it is located along Zaria Road, Kano.11. Marhaba Event Centre, Guda Abdullahi Road, Farm Centre, Kano.12. A three-storey building (Plaza) with 28 shops located on Hadeja Road, next to Sheshe Supermarket, Kano.13. A three-storey building (Plaza) with 126 shops located on Audu Bako Way, Opposite Nation Plaza, Kano.14. Classic Block Industry at Maiduguri Road, Kano.15. Atlasfield Corporate Headquarters, No. L6 Ahmadu Bello Way, Kaduna.16. Undeveloped plot located at Sharada, Adjacent A.A. Rano Filling Station, Kano.17. Undeveloped plot located at Yan Rake, Adjacent Dala Orthopedic Hospital, Kano.18. Undeveloped plot located along Kano-Gwarzo Road, Adjacent Kedco Regional Office, Kano North/Opposite Silver Spoon Restaurant, Kano.19. Undeveloped plot located along Kano-Gwarzo Road, opposite Markaz Mosque, Kano.20. Undeveloped plot located on Sani Marshal Road, Opposite Nissan Automobile, Kano.21. 11.7 hectares located Adjacent TINAPA Resort, Adiabo, Calabar. 22. Truck Assembly Plant, Easter Bypass, Kano.23. Event Centre located in Calabar, Cross River State.24. Aflac Plastics Limited located behind National Eye Centre, Kaduna.”