The police in Kano State have uncovered how an Islamic student, Aminu Ado, was tortured to death in the northwestern Nigerian state.  The Kano State Government has accordingly asked the police to exhume the remains of the Islamic student, known as Almajiri in common parlance, for autopsy.  Dr Muhammad Tahar Adamu, the state Commissioner for Religious Affairs, disclosed this when he visited an Islamic school in the Wailari area of the state, on Tuesday.  The police have also confirmed the incident through the spokesperson for the state command, SP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, who said some arrests had been made.  Kiyawa further said the police raided an illegal rehabilitation centre in Na'ibawa ‘Yan Lemo Quarters in the Kumbotso Local Government Area.  “At about 1100hrs, a report was received from ten (10) escaped inmates of an illegal rehabilitation centre, that one Musa Safiyanu, ‘m’, 55 years old, of Naibawa ‘Yan Lemo Quarters, Kumbotso LGA, Kano State is running an illegal rehabilitation centre with chained, tortured and locked (up) inmates, from where they escaped.  “And that, one of the inmates named Aminu Ado, ‘m’, 22 years old, of Na’ibawa Quarters Kano was tortured to death on the 29/01/2022 by Abdulladif Musa, ‘m’, 18 years old, of Na’ibawa Wailari Quarters Kumbotso LGA, Kano State.  “On receipt of the report, the Commissioner of Police, Kano State Command, CP Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko, fsi immediately raised and instructed a team of detectives led by CSP Abdulkarim Abdullahi to mount a 24-hour surveillance, verify the report, rescue the victims and arrest the culprits.  “The team immediately swung into action and the report was found to be true.”  He added that on January 31, 2022, 113 inmates were found in confinement.  “Some with various degrees of injuries resulting from torture. They were rushed to Murtala Mohammed Specialist Hospital, Kano for treatment and handed over to Kano State Government.  "Six suspects; (i) Musa Safiyanu, ‘m’, of Na’ibawa Yan Lemo Quarters, Kano, (ii) Abdullatif Musa, ‘m’, 18 years old, of Na’ibawa Wailari Quarters, Kano, (iii) Usman Abdulrauf Imam, ‘m’, 19 years old of Yanya Abuja, (iv) Mustapha Bala, ‘m’, 20 years old, of Azare, Bauchi State, (v) Sadiq Ismail, ‘m’,19 years old, of Unguwa Uku Quarters, Kano, (6) Umar Bako Abdulwahab, ‘m’, 38 years old, of Kureken Sani Quarters, Kumbotso LGA Kano State were arrested.  “On preliminary investigation, the suspects confessed to have been operating the centre for over ten (10) years despite the initial ban by Kano State Government,” he said.  This comes days after the murder of Hanifa Abubakar, a five-year-old pupil, by Abdulmalik Tanko, the proprietor of a school she attended before her gruesome murder. 