The All Progressives Congress has said the Lagos State Governor, Bababjide Sanwo-Olu, does not need an offer by the opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, to run for second term in office. The PDP offer had followed recent widespread speculation of plan by the Governance Advisory Council, GAC, of the ruling party, APC in the state to deny Sanwo-Olu a second term ticket. 





The APC Publicity Secretary in the state, Seye Oladejo, on Friday, also described the offer as “laughable.” The statement reads, “Our attention has been drawn to the offer of the opposition PDP’s gubernatorial ticket to the governor of Lagos State in the next national elections. “While the thought of desperately offering its worthless electoral tickets to every passerby is laughable, the extent of the level of degradation, degeneration and comatose state of Lagos state PDP shouldn’t be lost on all and sundry. “The platform that initially elected Governor Sanwoolu, having acknowledged his glowing performance across various sectors in his first term, is certainly still available to recontest for another term. “As the ruling party, we want to admonish the state governor to remain focused and undistracted from the onerous task of finishing strongly and fulfilling his part of the social contract with the good people of Lagos State. “We wish to warn the opposition PDP to desist from its age-long tactics of perennial attempts to destabilize the ruling party by the deliberate promotion of falsehood, blackmail and arms – twisting strategies for political advantage“While we sympathise with Lagos State PDP over its several years of political misfortunes and misadventures, good wisdom dictates that it put its house in order to have a semblance of relevance.  “It’s pitiable that PDP could only think of fishing in the pool of capable talents in the APC while looking for people to offer its worthless Electoral tickets. “This underscores the lack of attraction in the PDP and an admittance of its usual Waterloo in the forthcoming elections.”