Precious Chikwendu, the estranged wife of a former aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, has taken to her Instagram page to recount how she was physically assaulted by her estranged husband four months after she had her first son.  Fani-Kayode and Chikwendu’s marriage crashed in 2020 over allegations of domestic violence by the former beauty queen and his counter-allegation of infidelity.  The former lovers have been in court to fight for the custody of their children — Aragorn, Ragnar, Aiden, and Liam.  Sharing a slideshow of the happy moments she had with her son before they were separated on Instagram, she narrated how she was allegedly physically abused by the former minister when they were still together.  “You are that son that gives me peace and calm in the storm, your ability to understand me even in silence still amazes me. I know you are not ignorant of the happenings but can do nothing as you just soak things in and forge on,” she wrote.  “Never underestimate the bond between your mother and you the bond that was formed right from when you were in my womb and you witnessed all the punches, you took them with me as you kicked so hard and would only calm down when I whispered and pleaded with you, affirming that you would one day wipe my tears.  “It was only at that point you would calm down and stop kicking as if you understood how those punches and harsh words froze my entire heart and soul.”  Chikwendu also recalled how the former minister allegedly beat her up when Aragorn was barely four months old.  “What haven’t we weathered together? You witnessed so many in my womb and when you arrived this world, you were barely four months old when you witnessed your mother being beaten like a puppy,” she added.  “You were in my arms that night at the Wheatbaker Hotel after he was released from Ikoyi prison; it was all laughter at first, then prayers of thanksgiving and next, punches.  “You were dragged from my arms like a little bag of cake and I held on so tightly, the look in your eyes was that of so much fear, I looked into your eyes and I could read you clearly it was more of ‘never let me go mum.’  “So, I held on to you, the more I held on to you, the more the punches came. You cried out loudly and my heart shredded the more as the splashes of blood gushing from my nose landed on you.  “You were so terrified and all I wanted to do was get you out of that scene. I was able to get off with you and ran to the short stay apartment where Chidera and others were before you slept off on my chest after crying for so long.” 