The Police Service Commission (PSC) has suspended Assistant Commissioner of Police, Sunday Ubua, and Assistant Superintendent of Police, James Bawa, from the exercise of the powers and functions of their respective offices with effect from Monday, February 14, 2022. The two police officers were working under the suspended DCP Abba Kyari in the Intelligence Response Team of the Force Investigation and Intelligence Department of the Nigeria Police Force. Inspector-General of Police (IGP) The police had on Monday handed over Kyari, Ubua, Bawa and three other officers to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) over their alleged involvement in a case of illicit drug trafficking. The police service commission’s decision was contained in a letter to the Inspector General of Police, dated February 16, 2022, and signed by Justice Clara B. Ogunbiyi, retired Justice of the Supreme court and Honourable Commissioner 1 in the Commission for the Chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Smith, retired Inspector General of Police. According to a statement by PSC spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani, “they were also alleged to be involved in the current cocaine seizure and transfer to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency”. 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Police Service Commission Suspends Alleged Cocaine-Dealing Cop, Abba Kyari's Men, Directs Police Inspector-General To Suspend Two Inspectors
0 Comments
7 Hours Ago





The commission stated that in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 030406, it approved the suspension of the officers” until the outcome of the investigation into the allegations levelled against them.” It also directed the Inspector General of Police to “note also that DCP Abba Kyari, who prior to this allegation was on suspension, shall remain so until the conclusion of investigations”. The Inspector-General of Police was requested to place on suspension Inspector Simon Agrigba and Inspector John Nuhu in accordance with the Powers of Delegation. “The IGP is further requested to inform the Commission of the arrest of ASP John Umoru who is currently at large whenever his arrest is effected to enable it to take necessary action.” The commission also directed the Inspector General of Police to furnish it with information on further development on the matter for necessary further action. The suspended commander of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) was on Monday declared wanted by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for selling cocaine consignment seized by IRT operatives from drug barons at the Enugu airport in January this year. This came on the trail of his controversial involvement with self-confessed Internet fraudster, Ramon Abbas, popularly known as Hushpuppi. In July 2021, the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed how Kyari allegedly collaborated with Hushpuppi to jail one of the latter’s associates after a dispute over a $1.1 million scam on a Qatari businessman. The FBI also alleged that the embattled social media celebrity sent money to Kyari via a third person’s bank account and hosted him in his Dubai apartment. Meanwhile, an earlier report had shown that the NDLEA's revelation shows that more senior police operatives and other security agents would be arrested following the detention of Kyari over drug-related offences. The latest scandal involving the suspended Kyari came to the fore on Monday, a few hours after the super cop was declared wanted by the NDLEA over his involvement in a 25 kilogrammes cocaine deal.