Economic activities picked up on Monday in the South-East region as many residents ignored the sit-at-home order issued by the Indigenous People of Biafra. On Monday, business operators were in full swing in Owerri, the Imo State capital; just as economic activities operated unhindered.  Banks, eateries, filling stations, markets, and other business outfits opened for business. According to Vanguard, full scale business operations and human movements were observed in places such as Control Post, Amakohia, Orji, Ikenegbu Layout, Wetheral, Douglas, MCC roads. However, it was not the same situation in Orlu, as the streets were empty. Orlu axis has been the epicentre of violence in the state. In Umuahia, the Abia State capital, the sit-at-home order was ignored on Monday as residents went about their normal businesses without fear of any molestation. All banks in the capital city opened for business just as markets and street shops were also open. Schools also opened while the roads were very busy with both human and vehicular traffic. For some months now, residents of Umuahia have always ignored the Monday sit-at-home which IPOB, has since suspended. Unlike Umuahia, Aba residents always complied with the Monday sit-at-home, but the tide is beginning to change in recent times. Heavy presence of increased security operatives on the streets in the commercial city yesterday, gave residents the morale to ignore the order. Many markets were open although some traders and customers alike were still scared to transact business. Unlike previous experiences, many streets and stores were also open for business in Aba. Residents of the commercial city are gradually beginning to overcome the phobia associated with the sit-at-home order. In Anambra partial compliance was witnessed as most banks closed their doors to customers just as commercial vehicles were off the road. The markets were open and the shopping malls attended to their customers. Traffic along the Enugu-Onitsha expressway and the Onitsha-Owerri road was light. Majority of the schools were also open and normal learning took place accordingly. Few civil servants though attended to duty at the state secretariat. Workers who spoke said they found it difficult to get transport outside the state capital to come to work. As usual, it was the semblance of a ghost town in Nsukka and other adjoining local government areas where economic, social, and academic activities remained paralyzed every Monday. A resident of Nsukka Local Government Area, Mike Eze, informed that the people of the area no longer fix social ceremonies on Mondays for the fear of the unknown.