The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has insisted that everyone aiming to gain entrance into the NYSC camps must undergo a compulsory COVID- 19 rapid diagnostics test, saying only those that tested negative would be admitted for the orientation course.This comes ahead of the 2022 Batch A Stream 1 orientation exercise. The NYSC Director-General, Maj Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, disclosed this on Friday during a live joint webinar by NYSC/National Centre for Diseases Control organised for prospective corps members. The DG disclosed that those that test positive to COVID-19 would be handed over to the NCDC and State Ministry of Health Officials for treatment.lbrahim revealed that the collaboration with NCDC has yielded good results, adding that since the partnership started, no casualty has been recorded in any of the scheme's orientation camps across the country. He advised PCMs to be security conscious, avoid night journeys, while also counselling them to break any journey that would extend beyond 6:00pm. "You can pass the night in any NYSC orientation camp, NYSC secretariats, corps members' lodge, military and security formations. "I urge you to take advantage of this opportunity because NYSC is a platform for those that are serious. Posting and other services in NYSC are free, don't give bribe for posting,” he said.The DG stated further that call-up letters for the 2022 batch 'A' orientation exercise would be ready on Sunday February 20, 2022.In her submission, the NCDC/NYSC project lead for safe camp reopening, Dr Ladun Okunromade said adequate preparations have been put in place for the safe conduct of the 2022 batch 'A' orientation exercise.She said different variants of COVID-19 are ravaging the world, while Nigeria has recorded over 1,300 cases of Lassa Fever with 46 deaths and 20 healthcare workers infected.Okunromade advised prospective corps members and other camp participants to come to camp with facemasks, hand sanitisers; obey physical distancing, maintain personal hygiene and also adhere to all COVID-19 safety guidelines.The NCDC Director-General, Dr Ifedayo Adetifa in his address said, “There will be facilities for vaccination in the camp for those that will take either the first or second dose or third jabs and they to sight their vaccination cards.” He urged all camp participants to come to the orientation camps with their vaccination cards."This is the 7th edition of safe Camp Re-opening Webinar. We will continue to work hard to facilitate the safe re-opening for all camp participants. The virus is still with us and we must continue to take both personal and collective responsibility to ensure our safety,” he stated.