Members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities in the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO), were largely unhappy with the promotion of Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami, as a professor.  This is according to a report issued by the National Executive Committee of the union, which was obtained by SaharaReporters on Monday. Pantami Item 8 and 9 of the observations in the report noted that members of the varsity's chapter of ASUU “were unhappy with the appointment of Pantami as professor of cyber security” and the speed with which it was done as there were many staff members whose prima facie cases had been established for a long time but had yet to be concluded.  However, the report said the majority of them were unable to voice out their opinion for fear of being victimized, except for two young academics who spoke without fear.  Last Monday, at a press conference addressed by the President of ASUU, Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke, the union faulted the promotion of the minister which it also declared as “illegal”.  The academic union also threatened to sanction the leadership of FUTO over the process followed in promoting Pantami to the position of a professor.  Meanwhile, a probe panel set up by the ASUU chapter of the University had claimed that due process was followed in the appointment of the Minister as a professor.  The panel concluded that “the appointment of Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami as a professor of Cybersecurity by the FUTO Governing Council followed due process”, and recommended that “the university management should as a matter of urgency take appropriate actions, including legal action, against those who deliberately tried to drag the image and reputation of FUTO to the mud”.  In September 2021, Pantami, alongside seven academics were elevated by the council of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri to the position of professorship at the council’s 186th meeting.  This generated controversy, with many faulting FUTO on the promotion of the minister, who was not teaching in the university and whose highest academic attainment was reportedly a lecturer before he ventured into politics. Pantami’s past call to Jihad and unalloyed support for murderous groups like the Taliban and Al-Qaeda portray him as a dyed-in-the-wool Islamic fundamentalist.  Yet, President Muhammadu Buhari appointed him as communications minister to control the country’s massive data and telephone infrastructure and other sensitive details of national intelligence.  The President also stood by the minister after his past support for terrorist groups became public knowledge.  "This jihad is an obligation for every single believer, especially in Nigeria,’’ Pantami said during a vicious preaching in the 2000s. “Oh God, give victory to the Taliban and al-Qaeda (Allahumma’ nṣur Ṭālibān wa-tanẓīm al Qā‘ida).” DOCUMENTS: Lecturers at Nigerian University, FUTO Unhappy School Made Buhari’s Minister, Pantami a Professo... by Sahara Reporters on Scribd 