A Federal High Court in Abuja has refused to hear an application filed by the disgraced Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari, seeking bail. Kyari, accused of drug trafficking, has been in the custody of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). SaharaReporters Media However, he filed an application asking the court to grant him bail on the grounds of ill health. In an ex parte application brought before the court on Monday, Kyari through his counsel, Cynthia Obianuju, told the court that his health was suffering. His counsel, Cynthia described his client as diabetic and hypertensive, thereby praying the court to grant him bail pending the determination of the substantive suit.But Justice Inyang Ekwo ordered the applicant to put the respondents on notice. “Upon studying the process of the applicant and the averments in support of the application, I am of the opinion that the respondents be put on notice so they can answer to the averments. Therefore, the applicant is hereby ordered to put the respondents on notice of all the processes in this matter,” he held. He adjourned the matter till Thursday for a hearing of the application. In the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/182/22, the suspended Police chief is seeking an order from the court to immediately release him.In the alternative, the suspended DCP, being held by the NDLEA over his alleged involvement in hard drug trafficking wants the court to admit him to bail in liberal conditions. The NDLEA last Monday declared Kyari wanted following failed attempts by the police top brass to shield him from the latest and previous probes. Kyari, who has been suspended as the Commander of Intelligence Response Team (IRT) at the Force Intelligence Bureau of the Nigeria Police Force, is in the custody of the NDLEA over allegations of involvement in drug dealing. The new revelation comes amid Kyari's entanglement with a fraudster, Ramon Abbas aka Hushpuppi. In July 2021, the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed how Kyari allegedly collaborated with Hushpuppi to jail one of the latter’s associates after a dispute over a $1.1 million scam on a Qatari business person. The FBI also alleged that the embattled social media celebrity sent money to Kyari via a third person’s bank account and hosted him in his Dubai apartment. According to the US Department of Justice, a criminal complaint initiated the prosecution of Hushpuppi as court documents showed that Abbas, 37, pleaded guilty.