The Afenifere Group in the United Kingdom (UK) and Europe has called on Yoruba leaders to come together and ensure that Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, otherwise known as Igboho, is released from detention in Republic of Benin. The group said that Igboho’s long stay in detention was worrisome because it might have negative effect on his psychology and general wellbeing. Sunday Igboho Afenifere in a statement on Monday by its Secretary, Anthony Ajayi, said Sunday Igboho had spent over 200 days in Benin Republic detention since he was arrested at Cotonou airport en route to Germany alongside his wife in July 2021. The group appealed to Yoruba leaders to prevail on Igboho case, noting that his fight was meant to defend Yoruba people and not a criminal to be abandoned. “We call on all men and women of conscience, particularly the international community to which human rights and freedom are abiding faith, to prevail on the Nigerian government and Republic of Benin to release Sunday Igboho. He is only but a prisoner of conscience. He is not a criminal. "We are calling on the Nigerian government to pay Sunday Igboho the N20billion as damages awarded to him by the Oyo State High Court upon the savage attack on his person and property. "We also call on Yoruba elders to seal Sunday Igboho’s house as his house remains a crime scene. Why should people continue to live in a crime scene? Innocent people were killed in that house. The place should be sealed pending when all investigations regarding his raid are concluded. "The recent attack on Sunday Igboho residence by unknown gunmen where one person was feared killed and many confirmed injured was uncalled for,” the group said. Sunday Igboho was arrested alongside his wife by Benin Republic security force en route Germany in his bid to flee from Nigeria after Nigerian security agents raided his residence in Soka, Ibadan, Oyo State for allegedly stockpiling arms, an allegation he denied. This was due to his involvement in rallies for Yoruba Nation.