A student of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Olanipekun Irenimofe, who was recently arrested by the police has narrated her experience with the officers. The 24-year-old woman, in an interview with Punch, said she was put behind bars for buying a pregnancy test kit and contraceptive from a pharmacy. According to her, the officers asked her why she was already having sex and couldn't remain a virgin for her husband.Irenimofe said she was traumatised and scared as she was not particularly sure of what will be the outcome of the incident. She said the officers also arrested the pharmacist but the latter was released before she was released. She was quoted as saying, “My name is Olanipekun Oladayo Irenimofe. I am a student of MAPOLY (Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, Ogun State). I recently finished my ND (National Diploma). I am 24 years old. I finished last year but I’m still writing my project in school. I want to be silent on my course of study.“I was arrested by them (police) for buying a pregnancy test kit and contraceptive. After buying the above-mentioned items I wanted to see a customer and a friend of mine; so, I had to pass by the station. That was when a policeman called me and asked about my profession and I answered that I am a student.“He began to check the polythene bag I was carrying and then found the items. He then asked me why I was with the items and I told him they were for me. They then asked me to go to the behind the counter and later I was put behind bars.“They were just shouting why am I having sex; can’t I remain a virgin for my husband?”I didn’t say anything to them because I don’t understand! At (age) 24, is it illegal? Am I an underage person? If not for the Nigerian education system, should I still be in school?”She further said the officers never asked her to write a statement but they simply put her behind bars. “I was traumatised. I was worried because they were threatening me. I became worried when I was asked to go behind bars.”The young lady who said she spent about two hours behind bars said she was alone in the cell.Explaining her feelings, she said, “I don’t even know how to put it because it was the first time I would experience something like that.”She added that the officers never offered her any apology but rather behaved as if they were doing her a favour by releasing her.She also said even though she felt embarrassed for being harassed by the officers, she has no plan of suing them: “I’m not claiming any damages. My sister raised the alarm because she was scared; we are not trying to gain anything from this.“I’m not supposed to be harassed. I did nothing wrong, so I should not be treated like a criminal.“My friends were very supportive, and if not for my sisters and my friends, yesterday (Friday) wouldn’t have been bearable for me.”