The Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta and the Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago Iwoye both in Ogun State have reportedly prevented students from attending lectures without COVID-19 vaccination cards. The move was said to be in compliance with the directives of Ogun State Government and management of the institutions. Mapoly School Gate According to NewsDirect, the affected students bemoaned the development, noting that they missed classes as a result of lack of vaccination card. The students expressed their displeasure on the decision to enforce vaccination on the entire students. “I have already told them that nothing must happen to me as a result of this decision. “This is totally unfair. Initially, I thought students were going to go on a protest, but I was so surprised when I saw people showing their vaccination cards. “If all of us had insisted on fighting against the illegal imposition, they would not have gone away with it,” one of the students lamented. However, the Public Relations Officer of MAPOLY, Mr Yemi Ajibola, who confirmed the development, said the move implied that the state government was intensifying the efforts to cushion the spread of the pandemic. “It means that COVID-19 is still with us and Ogun State Government is seriously making effort to ensure that students get vaccinated. They came to the Polytechnic sometimes ago for mass mobilisation. “Recently, they returned to the Polytechnic with many vaccination spots apart from the health center. We have about five spots now on campus. They are efforts geared towards ensuring that the students are vaccinated. All these points are not by the school authority. It is from the State Government and ministry of health to ensure that we have everybody vaccinated. “So if so lecturers are now demanding for their vaccination card. I don’t see anything wrong with it just to make sure that the environment is safe for everybody. I don’t see anything wrong with lectures asking them to be vaccinated. “Most students who are complaining will be freshers because I know those returning students are aware of all this and most of them have gotten vaccinated even during or before the examination that I think and for those who have not that are not returning, I think that’s not out of case. “Yes, the school is supporting the State Government’s directive that students should be vaccinated,” he added.