Former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, has alleged that the incumbent, Hope Uzodinma has been destroying the projects his government built. Okorocha, who is also the Senator Representing lmo West senatorial District, called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the All Progressive Congress, to look into what Uzodinma had been doing in Imo State and call the latter to order.  According to Okorocha, Uzodinma’s government had begun the demolition of about 16 pedestrian bridges he constructed as governor, across the State Capital, Owerri, and its environs. The ex-governor stated this in a release signed by his Special Adviser (media) Sam Onwuemeodo in Owerri. He said, “As we write, more of such bridges must have also been brought down by Governor Uzodinma’s caterpillars.” He noted that the government in lmo seems to derive joy from the suffering and tears of Imo people particularly with its anti-people’s policies and actions, including the demolition of the pedestrian flyovers meant for them. Okorocha claimed the pedestrian bridges had been standing strong for more than eight years and had been in constant use by the people of Imo State. According to him, “The time has come for President Buhari and the leadership of APC to look into what Gov. Uzodinma and his heartless government have been doing in imo. “Governor Uzodinma, since he came on board under a very disturbing scenario, is either demolishing Okorocha’s projects or renaming them, just to remove any trace to Okorocha. “The government would fill potholes on roads built or constructed by Okorocha, and rename them and also claim credits.” He added that “the same government-sponsored a court case against Okorocha on the day he addressed a World Press Conference on his 2023 Presidential ambition. When that one failed, they came back and began to demolish the pedestrian bridges constructed by Okorocha with Imo people’s money. “The governor has been using Okorocha to distract Imo people and beyond, over his total failure to give Imo people leadership. “The government in Imo has taken the State into a deep slumber. Nothing is working in the State. The government has unleashed task forces on the Imo people. And the Governor seems not to be worried about the trauma Imo people have been going through under his government.”