A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted the Chairman of Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA), Olanrewaju Suraju bail on his own recognisance in a case bordering on cyberstalking.The case was filed against Suraju by the Nigerian government. The presiding judge, Justice Binta Nyanko, while ruling on the bail application filed by his lawyer, Muiz Banire (SAN), on Friday, held that Suraju should be released to his lawyer on his own recognisance, adding that his lawyer must deposit a N7 million cheque with the court registrar. Suraju pleaded not guilty to the two counts preferred against him when the charges were read to him by the court registrar. The prosecution counsel, Bagudu Sani, told the court that they had filed an amended charge, thereby bringing the counts down to two from the four initially filed. A charge sheet obtained by SaharaReporters showed that two counts were dropped as there was no evidence or proof to substantiate them. In the amended charge, Suraju was accused of circulating an audio telephone interview alleged to have occurred between one Mrs. Carlamaria Rumor, a reporter with RIA in Italy and Mohammed Bello Adoke (SAN), on social media. The defence counsel in his submission told the court to admit his client to bail on his self recognisance, adding that he is a prominent Nigerian. He said the defendant has been coming to court on his own accord without being coerced to do so, even when the prosecution was not ready.The charges read, "COUNT ONE —That you OLANREWAJU SURAJU, Male, of 20, Mojidi Street, Ikeja Lagos sometime in 2018, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did intentionally circulate an audio telephone interview alleged to have occurred between one Ms. Carlamaria Rumor a reporter with RIA Reporter in Italy and Mr. Mohammed Bello Adoke SAN via your Twitter handle @HEDAagenda which you knew to be false for the purpose of causing insult to Mr. Mohammed Bello Adoke SAN and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 24 of the Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention, ETC) Act, 2015 and punishable under the same Section of the Act. "COUNT TWO—That you OLANREWAJU SURAJU, Male, of 20, Mojidi Street, Ikeja Lagos sometime in 2018, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did intentionally circulate an audio telephone interview alleged to have occurred between one Ms Carlamaria Rumor a reporter with RIA Reporter in Italy and Mr. Mohammed Bello Adoke SAN on your Facebook page with the handle @HEDAResourcecentre which you knew to be false for the purpose of causing insult to Mr. Mohammed Bello Adoke SAN and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 24 of the Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention, ETC) Act, 2015 and punishable under the same Section of the Act."Adoke, one of those accused and charged with fraud in the OPL245 scam, also referred to as the Malabu scandal, had petitioned the police and accused those behind the petitions resulting in his prosecution for corruption and money laundering. He had alleged that they circulated fabricated materials against him to unduly incriminate him in the multi-million dollar scandal.   The police could not find any proof of forgery in the evidence used to expose Adoke's corruption but went ahead to charge the HEDA Chairman for cyberstalking.The Inspector-General of Police Monitoring Unit had in April 2021 detained Suraju at the Force headquarters for allegedly sharing media reports on the $1 billion Malabu oil deal. JP Morgan Chase Bank had also released fresh documents which indicted Adoke and were admitted as evidence which included an electronic mail sent by him on June 21, 2011. The bank released the documents to a United Kingdom court, the High Court of Justice, Business and Property Courts of England and Wales after the investigation was done by the Special Fraud Office, London, under Director Lisa Osofosky. The documents confirm that contrary to Adoke’s claim of forgery against the NGOs and Italian prosecutors, the documents emanated from JP Morgan and the UK court.   JP Morgan Chase Bank was accused by the Nigerian government of sending $801 million to the bank account of Malabu in Nigeria without appropriate authorisation from Nigeria.  Adoke and six others are standing trial over alleged fraud in the oil deal. 