The parents of Jeffery Ugaigbe, a 13-year-old boy in Edo State have cried out for justice following the death of their son who was a victim of a gay man. It was gathered that the suspect, 43-year-old Ovie Oktogbo, defiled Ugaigbe and 8 other boys in the Ugbowo neighbourhood in Benin after which the 13-year-old developed complications in the anus resulting in his death. The parents of the deceased reported the incident to the police station and the suspect, a father of three, has since been arrested.Meanwhile, the bereaved persons are calling for justice, particularly the death sentence for Oktogbo who confessed to committing the crime. Oktogbo had said: “I slept with 9 boys, they're in my area. One of the boys I slept with, introduced the other young man, and I started with him. I've only ever slept with him once.”Vincent Ugaigbe, father of the deceased, said in an interview: ”I want him to be sentenced to death, not life imprisonment. Presently I'm really in debt, I cannot take one square meal now because of the treatment.“I borrowed money from banks for the second admission. I've not been able to pay anything, as I am, I owe like N3 million.”The mother, who was weeping uncontrollably noted, ”My elder son borrowed money from all his friends to save Jeffery, doctors said they can do it that he should be under their care, we tried our best.” A grandparent of the deceased person stated‚ “He was my grandson, his death brings me so much pain. I just want you to help me to get justice.”A statement from the Edo Police PRO, Bello Kontongs stated, “On the 10/02/2022 at about 18:00hrs, the Edo State Police Command arrested one Ovie Oktogbo ‘M’ (43) of No. 15 Ugboguhi Street Off Uwasota, Ugbowo, Benin City, an indigene of Delta State but resident in Benin City. The suspect a father of three who also works as a guard in the area specialises in raping male children/teenagers between the ages of 10 to 15 years.“Preliminary investigation revealed that the rapist specialises in using N100 to N200 to lure his unsuspected victims and have an unnatural carnal knowledge of them through their anus by applying Caro-White bleaching cream on both his manhood and the victim's anus as the case may be for easy penetration.“Luck ran out on him as one of his victims ‘M’ 13 years (name withheld) fell ill with swollen feet, face and pus all over his body. Medical examination revealed that his liver and kidney are damaged as a result of a certain chemical contained in bleaching cream.“Upon further enquiry by the victim’s parents, he confessed that a certain man in the area had carnal knowledge of him, it was in that process that he applied the cream in his anus, hence the report to the police.”On receipt of the information, the operatives of the command arrested Oktogbo who is said to be cooperating with investigating officers.He confessed to having defiled nine boys, six of whom have already been identified. Their parents also made formal complaints to the Commissioner of Police, Philip Ogbadu, while the remaining three victims have yet to be identified.