The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) says its militant wing, the Eastern Security Network is not responsible for the recent attack launched on the Isu Local Government Area Divisional Headquarters of the police by unknown gunmen. The separatist group, while exonerating the ESN, stated that officers at the Isu Police Headquarters know those who have attacked them and should go after the offenders.  IPOB further alleged that members of the Ebubeagu security outfit, a local vigilante group set up by South-East governors, is responsible for attacks in the region. IPOB, in a statement issued by its spokesman, Emma Powerful, also warned against tagging members of its militant wing, Eastern Security Network as “Unknown gunmen”. According to the statement, the ESN and IPOB volunteers stay in the bushes and forests to safeguard Biafran women from Fulani terrorists masquerading as herdsmen. The statement reads: “We, the global movement and family of IPOB ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU wish to reiterate once again to the general public that IPOB volunteers and ESN operatives are not unknown gunmen contrary to allegations by the Nigeria Army, Police and DSS (Department of State Services) agents. “We have warned Nigerian security agencies to stop linking ESN operatives and IPOB volunteers or members with the hoodlums behind the kidnappings and snatching of cars in the region. “It is absolutely clear to all and sundry that Nigerian Government and security agencies and their evil politicians created the unknown gunmen in the region particularly in the Imo State because the state government wants to demonise IPOB and our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “We have also, on several occasions explained that our ESN operatives stay in the bushes and forests safeguarding our mothers, wives and sisters who have been victims of rape and killings by Fulani terrorists masquerading as herdsmen. “ESN had no hand in the recent attack at the Isu LGA Divisional Headquarters of Police by unknown gunmen. Those attacking them are those they created to demonise IPOB and its leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU. Ironically, the monster they created to destroy ESN has turned around to hunt them. They should leave IPOB and ESN out of their problem. “The demons the Nigeria Police, Nigerian Army and DSS nurtured will continue to hunt them until they openly confess their atrocities against Biafra. “They must come out openly and speak up on the mystery behind the unknown gunmen and cannibalism in the region. IPOB is the only obstacle they have yet they keep pointing accusing fingers at us for the same evil they committed. “The government of Imo State under the watch of Hope Uzodinma created unknown gunmen and now using Ebubeagu security outfit to accomplish his aims to eliminate our innocent citizens and youths in the state. “Ebubeagu is now the major cause of death in Imo State. They were recruited and given orientation to harm our people and blame it on IPOB and ESN. But they will not succeed in this evil mission. “Nigeria police should go and look for those who attacked them at Isu LGA, not IPOB. The worst thing is that they know where those attacking them are staying but they keep on mentioning IPOB and ESN members. “We are well ahead of them, and police cannot humiliate us with their fallacious and laughable allegation and media trial. We cannot accept that garbage.”