Human rights activist, Deji Adeyanju has taken a swipe at the major opposition party in Nigeria, the Peoples Democratic Party, alleging that the party had been dormant since its defeat in the 2015 election. Adeyanju, in an open letter addressed to the National Chairman of the PDP, noted that the PDP despite being a major opposition against the ruling All Progressives Congress had simply watched on despite the anti-people policies by the government of the day.  According to him, despite the anti-people policies of the Buhari administration including the humiliation of judges in 2016; refusal of President Buhari to sign the electoral act; accumulated loans and human rights excuses, the PDP had only issued press releases that were hardly widely calculated. He further urged the Party to rise up and challenge the policies of the current administration that are not favourable to the people else give room for the citizenry to fight the one-party system in the country. The statement reads: “We write this open letter to you in our capacity as a pro good governance, rule of law and human rights group. “You will recall that since 2015, the major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has sat aloof, hands akimbo and thoroughly disillusioned while the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) continue to run the country aground. All anti people policies emanating from the government of the day has been met with a lukewarm or no response from the PDP. “We recall that in 2016, the PDP offered no resistance whatsoever while the Government of the day invaded the homes of our most revered judges, desecrated same and arrested our Judges like common criminals. It is a testament to PDP’s weak position to note that none of these judges was ever convicted. They were rather humiliated for simply doing their jobs, ultimately resulting in the death of Honourable Justice Ngwuta. “While Nigerians generally excused PDP’s hibernation and tied it to its humiliating defeat at the 2015 election, there were no excuses when the President repeatedly refused to sign the Electoral Act into law and PDP failed to galvanise the citizens towards a push for better electoral reforms, beginning with the signing of the Electoral Law. “Smarting from bulldozing its way with anti-people policies, the government of the day began to systematically borrow money that generations unborn may not be able to pay up. Again, there was no resistance from the PDP. “We also remember the numerous human rights abuses perpetrated by the government of the day and state agents, without even the least resistance by the PDP. Rather than provide purposeful leadership, the PDP has taken solace in issuing lame press releases that do not circulate beyond Wadata house. For a party that once labelled itself the biggest party in Africa, this is a shame! “It is with the foregoing in mind that Nigerians generally heaved a sigh of relief when the new National Working Committee headed by you was sworn into office. Nigerians expected a robust opposition. “However, it appears the spirit of the press release and junketing associated with the Secondus-led NWC has yet again taken over the party. The party has failed to even galvanise its members in the National Assembly to put up resistance, even if symbolic, to the government’s persistent borrowing.”