Some power brokers and members of a cabal in the Ondo State Government have sat on a report written by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Charles Titiloye, recommending the reinstatement of a civil servant and director, unjustly retired, Fakuade Temitope Adeola. SaharaReporters learnt that the cabal in the state government victimised Fakuade and blocked the reinstatement of the civil servant. Rotimi Akeredolu SaharaReporters in December 2020 reported how Fakuade, an assistant director with the Ondo State Ministry of Youth Development and Sports, sought Akeredolu's intervention for unjustified retirement and non-payment of his salary by the state's civil service commission. Fakuade had said he was being harassed and victimised by the Commissioner for Works, Saka Yusuf Ogunleye; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth Development and Sports, Dupe Eshofonie; and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget, Bunmi Alade. SaharaReporters learnt that Fakuade approached a National Industrial Court to challenge his undue suspension and compulsory retirement in a suit, with suit number, NICN/AK/22/2020. Meanwhile, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Titiloye wrote a letter to Akeredolu, asking the state government to opt for reinstatement and settle out of court but some cabals prevented the letter from reaching the governor. The letter signed by the Attorney General, Titiloye, and addressed to the state governor, is titled, “Re: Undue Compulsory Retirement of Mr Fakuade Temitope Adeola, Deputy Director (Planning GL 15) Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget, Ondo State and Malicious Prosecution By Ministry of Justice: A Passionate Plea For Your Intervention.” Dated October 22, 2021, the letter reads, “I am confident that if the civil service commission and the earlier officers/authorities who considered the matter had been properly apprised of this legal angle to the entire scenario, their decision would have been different. “Against this background, I am of the humble view that, the civil service commission should be advised to reverse its decision and reinstate the officer to his appropriate position with payment of his entitlements from the date of his suspension.” “The meeting with the Attorney-General was settlement out of court meeting; the report which has been blocked from reaching the governor for his approval. The governor got wind of the matter, directed the AG and commissioner to investigate and revert to him, and the AG did. He submitted his report whose receipt was acknowledged on 28 October 2021. “The then head of service, now a special adviser to the governor, used this position to block the report from reaching the governor and vowed that it would not see the light of the day,” a source said. The report dated October 22, 2021, and obtained by SaharaReporters on Sunday, partly reads, “As part of the settlement, I instructed that the criminal charge against Fakuade Temitope Adeola be withdrawn. From the foregoing, all contentious issues surrounding this case have been amicably settled. 



See Also






Politics
Assistant Director Seeks Governor Akeredolu's Intervention Over Unjust Suspension By Civil Service Commission
0 Comments
1 Year Ago





“I am confident if the Civil Service Commission and the earlier officers/authorities who considered the matter had been properly appraised of this legal angle to the entire scenario, their decision would have been different. “Against this background, I am of the humble view that the Civil Service Commission should be advised to reverse its decision and reinstate the officer o his appropriate position with payment of his entitlements from the date of his suspension.” Fakuade had told SaharaReporters that "In the said letter of suspension, the allegations levelled against me are (i) disobedience to lawful orders/instructions (ii) absence from duty without leave (iii) insubordination: and (iv) financial embarrassment. None of those allegations can be proved against me neither was I invited to explain my side of the issue at the commission before I was suspended save for the financial embarrassment aspect which I was cleared of.” "My salary and other emoluments have been withheld. The pains and agonies that this injustice caused me are becoming too excessive. This is the height of victimisation, discrimination and inhuman treatment being meted out on me since 2014. "I am keenly imploring you sir as the "people's governor" to swiftly wade into this matter to ensure that the justice of this matter is met. You are my hope as a downtrodden in this matter," he had added.