Operatives of the Department of State Services, on Thursday, refused to grant access to Nnamdi Kanu's lawyers, SaharaReporters was told. This was made known in a statement issued by Ifeanyi Ejiofor, lead counsel to Kanu, who is the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra. 





According to the statement, the lawyers expressed displeasure over the continual denial of access to their client but have urged for restraint following pleas by the DSS.The legal practitioner however noted that peradventure DSS denies them access to Kanu on Monday, February 28, actions will be taken. The DSS had continually denied access to Kanu's lawyers in contravention of the order of Justice Binta Nyako of a Federal High Court in Abuja that Kanu should have access to his lawyers twice a week – Mondays and Thursdays.On Monday, DSS barred lawyers to Kanu, from meeting him in custody, an action that was greeted with mass displeasure.A statement from Ejiofor reads, “Our routine court-ordered visit to our indefatigable Client - Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu today was led by our most erudite foremost Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, who is also the Lead Counsel in this case.“The officials of the DSS denied us access to Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu for the umpteenth time, in flagrant violation of the subsisting Order of Court, while insisting that their personnel assigned to receive us will only be available on Monday next week to conduct the visit.“This development unarguably did not go down well with our visiting team as the Learned Silk leading us promptly registered the displeasure of the entire legal team and teeming followers of Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu in very clear terms. “Our Learned SAN, however, obliged the pleas of the officer in charge, who assured certainty on Monday’s visit. The Learned Silk reiterated that he will again be leading Onyendu's legal team next Monday for the visit and will not tolerate any further excuse(s). “The Learned Silk urged for restraint, while noting that if by Monday, 28th February 2022, we are not allowed access to our client, then he will have something to say to the world, and in the language they will understand.“We were all disappointed by this ugly trend, but we will be visiting again on Monday. There is no going back nor relenting, because it is forward ever and backward never. “It is to be noted, with utter dismay, that the present Administration has drifted to an unfortunate era where Orders issued by Courts of competent jurisdiction are treated with contempt, and with grave impunity by institutions whose primary mandate is to promote the Rule of Law. “Unfortunately, this is the sorry state of the nation. But, we will see how far they can progress with this macabre dance.“We shall continue to keep you in regular update of every development in this case as we progress. Thank you all, UMUCHINEKE and remain blessed. Please, remain focused and let your eyes always be on the ball. This too shall come to pass as we are gradually coming to the end of their drama.”