A baby of one year, 7 months is currently admitted at an undisclosed hospital in Delta State after the proprietress of his school, one Mrs Ogbo gave him 31 strokes of the cane for playing with water. The name of the school is Arise and Shine Nursery and Primary School, Asaba, the Delta State capital, SaharaReporters gathered. The baby receiving treatment in a hospital The sad incident was made known by Ebenezer Omejalile, Chief Operating Officer of Advocates for Children and Vulnerable People's Network (ACVPN), a human rights group. According to the mother of the victim, the act was perpetrated by the proprietress and her son who tied the hands and legs of the baby before flogging him into a coma. In a video shared by the mother of the victim, the victim was seen on a hospital bed receiving treatment. The teary mother said, “My son has not been himself since the incident, this is him on the hospital bed receiving drip after the incident in the school and up until now, the school has not called to know how he is faring or how it's going.” However, the police have arrested the accused person who is said to be asking for forgiveness and pledging to pay the hospital bills of the baby. The ACVPN Chief Operating Officer said, “According to the baby's mother, her son's hands and legs were tied by the owner of the school who gave him 31 strokes of the cane. “The name of the School is Arise and Shine Nursery and Primary School, Asaba, Delta State, behind Ibori Golf Club. “The school proprietress tied his hands and legs and started flogging him; he is just a year and seven months old – all this because the baby played with the tap water and got himself wet. What do you expect from a child of that age? “The owner of the school is Mrs Ogbo, she is from Orifite while the husband is from Akwuku Igbo in Delta State. “Currently the proprietress has been arrested. She is now pleading, promising to pay for all expenses incurred by the baby's treatment. “This was a woman who was initially boasting to the baby's mother that she has people in high places in the police force but for us, forgiveness is a sin. “Who gave such monsters approval to operate a school? Where is the Ministry of Education Quality Assurance unit? “The proprietress' elder sister went to the hospital the baby is currently admitted, ranting that nothing will happen. Thankfully the police officers from GRA Police Station, Asaba, Delta State apprehended her and she too has given a confessional statement. She is being detained along with the proprietress and her son.”