Some officers who had recently passed out from the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Academy have lamented the refusal of the agency to pay them their six months remuneration.The officers who spoke to SaharaReporters said the delay in payment will affect the professionalism in the discharge of duties, expected of the officers. In a memo obtained by SaharaReporters, the agency agreed that it owes the officers January salary, saying the February salary will be paid with January arrears. However, the officers noted that it is disappointing that the agency failed to address the nonpayment of their remuneration for the other five months. The memo, as obtained by SaharaReporters reads: “The Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, IPPIS Department has informed the Agency that officers who graduated from the Academy in September and November 2021 respectively were not created on the IPPIS Platform for payment of January salary due to lack of ample time for creation, while few from were created.”In view of the above, the affected officers will be paid in February 2022 with their January 2022 arrears.“Management regrets any inconveniences that this might have caused the affected officers.“Directors, Commandant NDLEA Academy, Commanders and Head of Units are to bring the content of this circular to all affected officers.”Reacting to the memo, one of the affected officers said, “I feel really sad for the so-called development and morale boost said to have taken place in the agency (NDLEA). “If this is the agency's transformation they talked about then I think something is wrong and we're just being deceived.“How can you take grownups who probably have dependants (families) from their various engagements for over 6 months without any form of welfare support or remuneration.“Now they're talking about 2 months payment, what about the other 5 months? Can 2 months salary comfortably get one an accommodation in the city to settle in? This is really absurd and inhumane.”Another said, “Honestly, we wouldn't have wanted this to come to public hearing but this is just like we are dying in silence. Is it with refusal to pay that we're going to do the work with professionalism, discipline and zero tolerance to corruption? “This treatment is just an act of aiding and abetting crime and corruption.“There are lots of my coursemates who borrowed money and they have exhausted all their loans on feeding. They have even exhausted the loan avenues. Now they can't even feed let alone transport to work; accommodation isn't mentioned yet.“I just hope something is done as soon as possible to boost the morale of personnel."