A Nigerian man, Hamzat, who once worked for BUA Group has called on Nigerians to appeal to the management of the company and founder, Abdulsamad Rabiu over the alleged non-payment of his entitlement since the termination of his appointment in November 2020. According to Forbes as of February 14, 2022, billionaire businessman, Rabiu, is the fifth richest person in Africa.  Hamzat, in a tweet on Monday, explained that he worked for the company as a civil engineer for more than 14 years before the termination of his appointment in 2020.  According to him, the company, however, refused to pay him the termination benefits he is entitled to as stipulated in the company's handbook for staff.  Hamzat further explained that he got in touch with the company requesting the payment of his termination benefits and was promised the payment would be made.  He said one Dotun Adako, who he claimed is the Head of Human Resources Department for BUA Group assured him that the payment would be made in 2021, directing him to the company’s refinery at Apapa, Lagos.  However, Hamzat said Adako's assistant in the Apapa office claimed he had no idea of such an arrangement.  This, according to him, shows that the BUA is not willing to pay him his entitlement as he also claimed that other staff members who left after him have the same complaints.  He wrote on Twitter, “Nigerians Please Help Me Appeal To BUA Group And Mr Abdul-Samad Rabiu (Chairman BUA Group) To Pay My Terminal Benefit Since November 2020.  "I am Hamzat, who worked for BUA Sugar refinery for 14 & half years (2yrs of project inclusive) as Civil Engineer handling multiple tasks from design to construction. I used to solely handle Arch, Str, BOQ prep & manage d construction without even an IT student in my last 8yrs.  "I was disengaged in Nov 2020 and BUA has refused to pay me d promised terminal benefits dt is stated in workers handbook. “Mr Dotun  Adaeko (BUA grp hd of HR) promised my payment will b early 2021 so I should b relating with his assistance at d Apapa refinery.  "The Apapa office has no clue on getting my pay ready as Mr Dotun also no longer picks my calls nor responds to my mails and thus BUA is showing serious unwillingness to pay me. “Also I have written to Mr Abdul Samad severally and my mail was not once responded to.  "Honourable Nigerians please help me request my entitlements from BUA who is more than capable of paying my money but wouldn't want to. “Also some other colleagues that left after me told me that they are suffering the same condition.  "Nigerians please help me to get my terminal benefits as I have done my very best of contribution to contribute to the growth of BUA Sugar refinery so I should be paid my dues.  "Nigerians please help appeal to Mr Abdul Samad Rabiu to pay my due. Please help." Efforts by SaharaReporters to get the company for reaction were not successful. None of the telephone lines listed on the company’s website for its Lagos office connected. And when SaharaReporters called the Abuja office of the company, a woman who answered said she could not comment on the matter. She directed our reporter to their Lagos office, insisting that the lines that failed to connect were the right lines to reach the company’s officials in Lagos. https://twitter.com/Hamzatoy101/status/1492937974304100355?t=dBRzdqu0GTZeaa7nh1uwaw&s=19