Some members of a syndicate led by international fraudster, Ramon Abass, popularly known as Hushpuppi, paid over N279million to an unnamed younger brother of embattled Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari, the Nigeria Police Force’s probe report has revealed. The investigation report which was submitted to the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, showed that a total of N279.120million flowed to the younger Kyari’s bank account at various times from the cyber scam syndicate members – Efe Martins (lead coordinator), Sikiru Adekoya, Usman Ibrahim, and Hussaini Ala.  It is not clear whether Kyari’s brother was acting as a proxy for his embattled elder sibling when he received the huge money from Hushpuppi’s associates. The police report stated, “Sikiru Adekoya has many times received money from Hushpuppi and Efe and has equally transferred money to Usman Ibrahim. Adekoya after initial denial of having any financial transaction with both Hushpuppi and Efe Martins eventually admitted receiving various sums of money through transfers into his GTBank. However, he could not offer reasonable explanations of what the sums were meant for and what he did with the monies.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Nigerian Anti-drug Agency, NDLEA Starts Grilling Disgraced Police Officer, Abba Kyari, Other Collaborators
0 Comments
20 Hours Ago “A junior brother to DCP Kyari is a major beneficiary of funds from the Zenith Bank account of Hussaini Ala from where he at different times received various sums totaling N218,120,000. He also received the sum of N44million in multiple transactions from DCP Abba Kyari.” The police had on Monday said it arrested Kyari and four other police officers over drugs deal which got them declared wanted by the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency. Others arrested alongside Kyari include ACP Sunday Ubuah, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agrigba, and Inspector John Nuhu, while the fifth suspect, ASP John Umoru, is still at large. They were arrested on Monday for their involvement in an alleged case of criminal conspiracy, discreditable, unethical and unprofessional conduct, official corruption, and tampering with exhibits in a case of illicit drug trafficking involving a perpetual transnational drug cartel, the police said.



See Also






Corruption
Hushpuppi: Police Commission Begins Probe Of Disgraced DCP Abba Kyari As Inspector-General’s Panel Delays Report
0 Comments
6 Months Ago Deputy Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, who confirmed their arrest in a statement in Abuja, revealed that they had been handed over to authorities of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). Adejobi said interim investigations report revealed that two international drug couriers identified as Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus, were arrested at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu on the 19th of January, 2022 upon their arrival from Addis Ababa aboard an Ethiopian Airlines flight ET917. He added that the international narcotics cartel involved had strong ties with some officers of the NDLEA at the airport who are allegedly on their pay roll. 