Founder of the Niger Delta Volunteer Force, Mujahid Asari-Dokubo has accused Nigeria's former President, Olusegun Obasanjo of supporting the agitations of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). Dokubo made the allegation during a Facebook live video on Wednesday, adding that some Yoruba leaders are taking sides with the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu and encouraging the destruction of the South-east. Olusegun Obasanjo He said while IPOB was violent and burning down the southeastern region, those agitating for Yoruba Nation, as championed by Sunday Igboho are peaceful. He further charged IPOB members and their supporters to take a cue from Igboho, who has never ordered the killing of anybody — allegedly unlike now-detained Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of IPOB, he said. Igboho is also being detained in Benin Republic by the government of the West African country after he was arrested at Cotonou airport, while trying to travel to Germany. “You come out and kill our people, and people are supporting you, and you are happy,” he said. He continued, “Sunday Igboho never commanded anybody to be killed. Look at how the Yorubas are fooling you: those elderly buffoons and fools. Mischief-makers fooling you to destroy Igboland.” He added: “Why are they not disturbing Lagos because of Sunday Igboho (who is being detained)? They are saying ‘IPOB is the best thing’, ‘Nnamdi Kanu is the saviour, who then is Sunday Igboho?’ Accusing some Yoruba leaders of supporting Kanu, he said, “God (will) punish them and throw them into the pit of hell. They are urging you, fooling people to destroy our land. Sunday Igboho is there, they are not destroying Lagos, Osogbo, and Ibadan, but they are telling you to destroy Igboland and you are happy destroying our land.” He also hurled some unprintable insults at Obasanjo for allegedly supporting Kanu. “I am an Igbo man, I've never denied and I will continue to be. You are not more Igbo than me, so stop this nonsense. “I will chase you everywhere, every corner of the way and bring you to book and I'm doing it. I don't just talk, my mouth and hand and leg work together. I told you I will destroy IPOB, all the best of IPOB are with me. Those other people will come and join me too because they know I stand on the platform of truth.” Dokubo's outburst comes as a rumour circulated the social media quoting Obasanjo to have said, “With what I saw at UK Parliament, I can boldly say that Nnamdi Kanu has gotten Biafra.” It was posted on Tuesday by Daily Times Nigeria on their verified Facebook page with a picture of Obasanjo attached. However, this piece of information cannot be confirmed.