A 19-year-old Nigerian student, Fadlullah Agboluaje who died a day after arriving at the Lviv Polytechnic National University, Ukraine, experienced extreme cold which led to his untimely death, according to the Nigerian government. Rofeeha Agboluaje, an elder sibling to Fadlullah Agboluaje, had claimed the school authorities were yet to make a comment regarding her brother's death.  According to her, the university’s management had not communicated with the family since Fadlullah’s death even though it was over three weeks. “They have not replied to our mail since then. Even the two people helping us with the case have got no response till now,” she had said. The lady said she was hopeful that the family would know the truth regarding her brother’s death because of Abike Dabiri, Chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission’s intervention. The family had alleged that Lviv Polytechnic National University concealed the mysterious circumstances surrounding the death of Fadlullah.



See Also






News
Ukraine University Keeps Mum Over Death Of Nigerian Student In Facility Three Weeks Ago
0 Comments
2 Days Ago However, in a series of tweets shared by Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) yesterday, the Chairman/CEO Abike Dabiri-Erewa paid a condolence visit to the family of Agboluaje. It tweeted, “Recall: FADLULLAH AGBOLUAJE arrived in Ukraine on January 8 and was reported dead. A day after he was said to have died from extreme cold in his hostel room in Ukraine, according to the autopsy done on his body in Ukraine. “The visit was filled with so many emotions and grieves from the Agboluaje’s family who blamed the school for negligence on the part of the liaison officer. “Dabiri-Erewa, who was filled with compassion for the Agboluaje family, informed the family of the immediate intervention of the Nigerian envoy in Ukraine, Ambassador Fatai Alege, who, with the consent of the father, demanded an autopsy.” SaharaReporters had last week reported that Rofeeha who took to her Instagram handle said her brother, Fadlullah had arrived in Ukraine on January 9, 2022, and was picked up from the airport by a representative of the university. She said the young man was not particularly excited with the condition of the accommodation provided by the institution and had lodged a complaint. However, rather than get an update on the accommodation plan, the family got the news that their son was found dead on the floor of his room. The aggrieved sister said her brother left Nigeria healthy, did all the required tests and took the necessary vaccination as she queried what could be the cause of his death. Roheefa further called on the school to provide answers to questions particularly with regards to the autopsy the school claimed it conducted.