A bill seeking to provide compensation for victims of kidnapping is going through the process of consideration by the House of Representatives. The proposed legislation sponsored by Tajudeen Adefisoye, a lawmaker from Ondo State, titled: “Control of Small Arms, Light Weapons and Restitution of Victims of Abduction, Kidnappings, Banditry Bill, 2022” passed first reading at the lower legislative chamber on Tuesday. Senate The 25-page proposed legislation seeks restitution for “victims of acts of abduction, kidnapping and banditry in Nigeria from the amounts of monies or properties of the offender(s) forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria whether or not the monies or properties are proceeds of the crime committed.” The bill also seeks to give legal backing to the national centre for the control of small arms and light weapons (NACCSALW). A Bill seeking to introduce stiffer punishment for kidnapping, wrongful restraint and wrongful confinement for ransom, had in September passed second reading at the Senate. This was sequel to the presentation of the lead debate by the sponsor, Sen. Ibikunle Amosun (APC-Ogun) during plenary on Tuesday. The bill is titled “Abduction, Wrongful Restraint and Confinement Bill 2021.” Leading the debate on the general principles of the bill, Amosun said that it was read for the first time on Wednesday, June 30. He said the aim was to ensure stricter and more stringent punishment for the offence of kidnapping, and bring to an end the debate of the adequacy or otherwise of punishment for kidnapping and other related crimes, like false imprisonment. “It also seeks to combat and prevent any form of kidnapping in Nigeria. “This Bill also provides more punitive measures for ancillary crimes flowing from the commission of the crime of abduction, like death or grievous bodily harm. “To achieve the deterrent effect, life imprisonment is proposed for the offence of kidnapping, particularly where death results from the act. “The law is made stricter by ensuring that recipients of any proceeds of the act of kidnapping are heavily sanctioned with term of imprisonment of up to 30 years. “The bill proposes to give the Inspector-General of Police wider powers to enable adequate policing of the crime of kidnapping.” The lawmaker further said that the highest term of imprisonment prescribed for kidnapping in the Criminal and Penal Code Acts was 10 years imprisonment. “The light punishment against these offences has not helped in deterring the spate of abductions and kidnappings that have now become prevalent in the country.” 