The Revolutionary Socialist Movement has condemned the arrest of human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore by the Nigeria Police Force on Thursday.The group, in a statement by Salako Kayode, its Publicity Secretary expressed displeasure with the unprofessional manner at which Sowore was arrested stating that the police could have invited the activist to answer the petition written against him by billionaire, Ned Nwoko. Omoyele Sowore
BBC


According to the statement, Nwoko is known for wielding his influence with the police against poor Nigerians as they cited instances of arrest propelled by the billionaire including that of an aphrodisiac seller, Hauwa Saidu and father of former beauty queen, Pamela Ifejoku.The group further urged the police never to allow itself to become a tool in oppressing Nigerians.The statement reads, “Omoyele Sowore was arrested in a gestapo manner at the Appeal Court premises today in Abuja after he was leaving the court with other members of African Action Congress (AAC) who attended a court session with him to demand his reinstatement as the legitimate Chairman of the party.“The police have said they're acting on a petition by Ned Nwoko. To us in RSM, this is political policing and attack on the rights of Mr Omoyele Sowore. “As we write, Mr Sowore is still with the police at their station-abattoir former SARS office along AYA-Apo road by Guzape junction in Abuja.“It's ridiculous that the Nigeria police will resort to laying ambush on Mr Sowore to arrest him when he can be invited. Mr Sowore is popularly known in Nigeria as a foremost journalist, human rights activist and a former Presidential candidate.“We condemn the arrest of Mr Omoyele Sowore. Mr Ned Nwoko is known for using police to harass and oppress ordinary citizens. Just few weeks back Ned Nwoko wrote a petition against a popular aphrodisiac seller Hauwa Saidu popularly known as Jaruma and she was later detained at Suleja correctional facility.“Similarly in May last year, a former beauty queen, Pamela Ifejoku had in a viral video on her Twitter page accused Nwoko of putting her father in jail and causing her mother to spend her birthday in prison because their community resisted his attempt at land-grabbing.”Many poor Nigerians have been  imprisoned on the orders of Ned Nwoko by the Nigerian Police, to us Mr Sowore is a well respected Nigerian that shouldn't be arrested on a petition by Ned Nwoko. The police would have invited Mr Sowore and settle the matter if need be. Attempts to harass Mr Sowore in order of Ned Nkowo will be resisted with protests.“We demand the immediate release of Omoyel Sowore and an end to political policing. Mr Ned Nwoko isn't above the law and shouldn't be treated better than any Nigerian.“The Nigeria police must prevent itself from being used to oppress ordinary Nigerians”We call on Nigerians to demand end to political policing and abuse of people's right, Nigeria must be ruled on rule of law and not gangsterism.”