A cleric based in Abeokuta, Ogun State, Abolarinwa Emmanuel, has put himself up for sale. Emmanuel said he was willing to go with any buyer willing to pay N2 billion to provide for his wife and three children.  The 43-year-old man, a native of Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State, sent an SOS to SaharaReporters on Friday, saying he was fed up with the life he and his family was currently living and had therefore resolved to sell himself to raise money to take care of them.  Previously living in Ibadan, Oyo State, where he owned and ran a small bakery, Emmanuel disclosed that he fell on hard times shortly afterwards, losing his entire investment and only source of livelihood.  According to him, his problem began when the owner of the facility used for the bakery sold the property to another person.  Efforts to raise enough funds to rent another space proved difficult in the weeks that followed that development, eventually leading to the death of the business.  Frustrated and confused about what next to do, Emmanuel relocated his family to Abeokuta in 2014 in search of a new life.  Engaging in menial jobs like grass cutting and working as a labourer at construction sites just to earn some money to provide food for his wife and three children, the 43-year-old soon became a cleric, hoping luck would finally smile on him.  But several months after joining a church in the Kenta Idiaba area of Abeokuta as an assistant pastor, Emmanuel is thinking of another route to end his misery.  "I am fed up with everything," he said while sharing his story. "Nothing that I lay my hands on that is working. Maybe God has abandoned me, I don't even know.  "My bakery business collapsed in Ibadan, forcing me to move to Abeokuta. I have searched for work in vain since moving to Ogun State in 2014. To survive, I sometimes cut grass, work as a labourer at farms and construction sites.  "My wife too has been searching for work since graduating from a teachers’ college seven years ago.  "It was out of frustration that I went into ministry work but the situation has not changed yet.  "I am fed up of life that is why I want to sell myself so that I can give the money to my wife and children to continue with their life.  "I will serve whoever buys me diligently and will be willing to do whatever they want," he added.  Asked if he was not scared that a potential buyer could kill him for ritual purposes, Emmanuel said he was ready for any outcome as long as money for his wife and kids would be available.  "I don't mind being killed by whoever buys me. There is nothing is this life for me anymore. My major concern is to find money to give to my family to continue with their life," he said.  The self-acclaimed prophet, who revealed that his wife and other family members do not know about his plan to sell himself, stated that he was not going to back down on his plan until he achieved his target.  "I won't stop until I sell myself and raise money to give my children a better life.  "Nigeria has become so hard that if you don't do certain evil things, you won't be able to survive.  "Nobody in my family knows my plan because I don't want anybody to stop me. I must achieve my aim because I cannot continue to watch my children and wife suffer," he stated.