The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has urged the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) to clamp down on entrepreneurs/vendors marketing unverified sex-enhancing performance products. The group urged the government agencies to protect Nigerians whose consumer rights are being abused by fake claims on the efficacy of sex-related products.  Speaking at a media briefing on Wednesday in Abuja, HURIWA’s National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, gave Hauwa Mohammed popularly known as Jaruma, 72 hours to repudiate the alleged efficacy of her local aphrodisiac known as Kayanmata or showcase its approval from relevant government authorities. Onwubiko added that the group had written an open letter to Jaruma on the issue. He said, “We are urging you (media) to sensitise the Federal Government’s agencies responsible for the protection of the rights of Nigerian Consumers to wake up from slumber and save Nigerians from abuses and violations of the legal and constitutionally protected Rights especially in the face of what looks like a deluge of KAYANMATA, and many other unverified and unscientific products that are sold both online and in the traditional market places in which citizens are deceived into believing in the efficacious effects of those products to enhance their sexual lifestyle. “HURIWA is worried that the seemingly growing global demand for sex-related products and increasing awareness of sexual wellness are spurring a boom in the global sex industry amid rising demand for lingerie, contraceptives, condoms, lubricants, sex toys, etc.. Business insider predicts the global sex market will grow by nearly 7% each year up till 2021. “HURIWA shares the same observation with a certain writer who wrote that despite its conservative culture and proclivity to avoid sexual matters, Nigeria’s sex industry is evolving just as fast. Also, this writer says that the sexual wellness market is dominated by condoms, pills and sex toys, but there is a significant niche that exists outside these, a world of herbs and spices that serve as sexual enhancers. Enter Kayanmata, a local aphrodisiac. Source: stearsng.com 8 May 2018. “HURIWA is calling on relevant regulatory agencies to wake up from slumber and protect vulnerable Nigerians from products such as sexual enhancers from being duped especially if these products are yet to be authenticated and accredited. Agencies such as the Federal Competition and Consumer Rights Commission formerly identified as the Consumer Protection Council and NAFDAC are the two leading regulatory authorities that ought to stop deceptive advertisements of sexual wellness and enhancement products that have flooded the airwaves and online/social media and wreaking domestic havoc and destabilising marriages and relationships.” HURIWA lamented that both NAFDAC and FCCPC set up to protect consumer rights are failing in their duties.