The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) on Sunday ordered the blockage of all major roads in Nigerian states and its capital, Abuja, over the one-month strike embarked upon by university lecturers. University lecturers, under the aegis of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) last week began a total strike for four weeks.  The national students' body said the decision to block all major roads was reached by all its organs in Sokoto as its way of protesting against incessant industrial actions by university lecturers. A statement titled, ‘NANS National Action Against Incessant ASUU Strike’, which was jointly signed by NANS President, Asefon Sunday; and NANS Secretary-General, Adekitan Lukman, lamented the implications of the strike on students, which include financial. The statement reads, “Nigerian students can’t continue to pay for sins we never committed, as we are paying for our education, we strongly believe we deserve the best, at the end of every industrial action, ASUU members are paid their salaries, likewise, Government officials in charge of education supervision get their pays. “It is only Nigerian students that get nothing but a waste of everything, the house rent is non – refundable, the age count is irreversible.“The extension of stay on campus didn’t only affect our academic journey but destabilise our life plans, as many misses NYSC mobilisation due to age limit, many lost job opportunities arising from age factors while many became exposed to risks and crimes following the avoidable idleness mode the strike action imposed on Nigerian students. “To act against these numerous consequences of industrial action on Nigerian students’ academic journey, I am pleased to direct the immediate commencement of planning and mass mobilisation of Nigerian students and comrades across the 36 states of the Federation and FCT in line with congress decision. “The line of actions is as follows: Blockage of all major Federal Roads in all the 36 states of the Federation to be led and coordinated by NANS JCC and Zonal Executive including National officials of NANS in the state. “Federal Capital Territory to be blocked by National Secretariat in collaboration with FCT axis of NANS. “These became sacrosanct once ASUU and FG fail to reach compromise and get our campuses reopened on or before 28th February, 2022. “In a clear term, Monday, 28th February 2022 is hereby declared as National Action Day Against ASUU Incessant Strike Action tagged ‘#ENDASUUSTRIKEPERMANENTLYNOW.’”