Nigerians on microblogging platform, Twitter have resumed the call for an end to bad governance in Nigeria with the hashtag EndSARS.The #EndSARS is currently trending on the Nigerian Twitter sphere with twitter users reminding others to get their Permanent Voters Card. The outburst follows a comment by the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu, who said he was ready to get dirty to secure the presidential seat come 2023.The APC chieftain, during a visit to the Olubadan-designate, Dr. Lekan Balogun, in Ibadan said he was ready to be dirty with anyone in his quest to become the President of the country.He had said partly, “No amount of intimidation can stop me. I am ready to get dirty. I am out to become President of Nigeria. We are at the crossroads.”This had infuriated young Nigerians who had kicked against the initial declaration of the 69-year-old politician. The #EndSARS hashtag is currently trending to remind Nigerians to get their voters card and make the right choice in 2023 as they noted that social media bants are not enough to stop power-thirsty politicians from getting into positions of power.Some of the comments on Twitter are below:  Tinubu has started playing ethnic card, saying "the enemies of Yoruba race are against his presidency".We won't fall for that trick of yours, true sons and daughters of Oduduwa will never defend you becos of presidency.You are unfit and will never be till you meet your maker. One of the things that cause poverty in Nigeria is the Nigerian ruling elite. The ruling elite lacks the kind of philosophical and ideological vision and orientation that is committed to developing "a dream society." They have no dream beyond the satisfaction of desires. #EndSARS I'm loving how we still keep making this story trending, our voices still matter bruh and sis, and we won't stop until the voices is heard. #EndSARS #EndSARS pic.twitter.com/GPgRzVSqDY To them politicians sponsor it, To us is remembrance, #EndSARS20-10-2020My mentor query me #EndSARSIt was against us the youthWe should remind the Pls #EndSARS Dust our PVCs election must be free, fair and credible.2023 To them, it's politics To us, it's SURVIVAL!!Which is greater?Let your PVC decide #EndSARS pic.twitter.com/ZEEtqZFvwJ 