A Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday fixed April 26 for judgment in a suit instituted against the Senate by the Chairman, Code of Conduct Tribunal, CCT, Danladi Yakubu Umar, seeking to stop it from probing him over alleged public misconduct. Justice Inyang Ekwo fixed the judgment date after Danladi and the four defendants in the matter adopted their final processes.  The four defendants in the matter are the Senate, Senate President, Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions; and the Attorney General of the Federation, AGF. The CCT Chairman, in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/ 671/2021, is challenging the powers of the Senate to investigate him in an alleged assault perpetrated against a security guard at Banex Plaza in Abuja. In the suit filed by his lawyer, Mr Sunday Edward, the plaintiff is asking the court for an order of perpetual injunction restraining the Senate, its members and agents from conducting or continuing to conduct investigations into the allegations of assault levelled against him via a petition submitted to the Senate. BREAKING: Code of Conduct Tribunal Chairman, Justice Umar Publicly Assaults, Brutalises Security Guard At Abuja Plaza | Sahara ReportersThe CCT chairman also launched a barrage of attacks on the young man and violently kicked him.READ MORE: https://t.co/bHT7VmMJzg pic.twitter.com/lG9FCAwVNU  Specifically, the plaintiff wants the court to determine whether the alleged case of assault which took place at Banex Plaza in Abuja on March 29, 2021, formed part of the matters the Senate is constitutionally empowered to investigate. He also asked it to determine whether the Senate and its Committee on Ethics and Public Petitions are competent to investigate or invite him in relation to the investigation of the allegation of assault brought against him and whether the powers of the Senate to conduct the investigation are not governed or subject to the provision of sections 88 and 89 of the 1999 Constitution. The plaintiff, therefore, wants the court to declare that the purported case of assault that took place on March 29, 2021, did not form part of the matters the Senate is constitutionally empowered to investigate.



See Also






Legal
Nigerians Demand Sacking, Prosecution Of CCT Chairman, Justice Umar, For Publicly Assaulting Security Guard At Abuja Plaza
0 Comments
10 Months Ago He further asked the court to declare that the Senate’s moves to conduct an investigation in the matter were unconstitutional and it amounts to unwarranted usurpation of the functions of the police and of the court of competent jurisdiction. At Tuesday’s proceedings, Umar’s counsel asked Justice Ekwo to grant all the reliefs sought by his client and restrain the defendants from causing his investigation. However, counsel to the Senate, Kafayat Suleyman, urged the court to dismiss the suit, insisting that the Senate has the power under Section 88 of the Constitution to investigate alleged misconduct by any public officer. Justice Ekwo, after taking arguments from the parties, fixed April 26 to deliver judgment in the matter. 