Policemen in Gombe State have forced a National Youth Corps member, Emeka Anikpe, to pay transport fare to take the suspect who burgled his apartment on several occasions, to prison  The corps member was also compelled by the police to pay for the matter to be charged to court despite being the victim of the crime committed.  The police have failed to provide any protection for Anikpe or get justice for him despite several threats from the suspect and gang members after his apartment was broken into and valuable items were stolen.  Speaking with SaharaReporters on Monday, the corps member, who earlier served in Kumo Town under Akko Local Government Area of Gombe State, before staying back to teach in a school upon completion of the mandatory exercise, said he was afraid for his life after the police failed to apprehend or prosecute other burglars threatening to harm him in the area.  He said, "After serving for one year in a local school here, I stayed back to continue teaching Mathematics out of love for the young children here. I rented an apartment where I stay and go to school every morning.  "But I became a target for thieves for reasons unknown to me.  "On October 6, 2021, I came back from school to discover that the windows in my house had been burgled. “I went to the police station to report but the policemen collected N1,000 from me before sending a female officer to inspect and take pictures of the crime scene.  "On December 4, 2021, I was in Bauchi when a friend informed me that my apartment had been burgled again and all my electronics were stolen. I urged him to report to the police before I returned the next day but he was asked at the station to pay N5,000 before any step could be taken.  "On January 2, 2022, I was in Jos for the festive season with my mum when I received a call that my house had been burgled again. Neighbours were able to apprehend the burglar this time around and handed him over to the police.  "When we got to court two days later, N2,000 was collected from me before the judge heard my case. The suspect was ordered to be remanded in prison custody.  "A police officer met me outside the court and asked that I provide N2,000 for transportation of the suspect to prison. They said if I failed to give them the money, I should be ready to take him to prison custody myself. I eventually had to give them N1,500.  "A few hours after leaving the court, I saw the same suspect walking past my house and laughing at me. He also threatened to deal with me.  "I went back to report at the police station but till this moment, the suspect and his gang members are walking freely and threatening my life. The police and court have not been able to prosecute and convict any of them for the crime they committed.  "I am really afraid for my safety. These guys could harm me any moment from now if the police fail to do the right thing by arresting and ensuring that they are convicted of the crime."  The spokesperson for the police in Gombe, Mary Malum, a Superintendent of Police, told SaharaReporters that the matter will be taken up as soon as the corps member lodges a complaint with the state command.