The All Progressives Congress Youth Development and Solidarity Forum has accused Governors Mohammed Badaru of Jigawa, Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi and Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti states of plotting to impose Senator Sani Musa as national chairman of the party ahead of the February 26 convention. The Secretary-General of the forum, Mr Tobias Ogbeh, made the accusation while addressing journalists on Sunday in Abuja.  He warned that plots to impose Musa on the party may lead to the implosion of the APC. The group said, "Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and their other desperate allies including serving ministers have perfected plans to ensure that Senator Sani Musa was imposed as APC National Chairman alongside other lackeys that would be named to other positions at the convention. "Senator Sani Musa would, in turn, deliver Bagudu as APC presidential flag bearer and Fayemi as his running mate. "They have cooked up what they called unity list to package their plot as something positive and desirable for the party and the country when the contrary is the case. "Sadly, things are now clearer. The governors in question never bothered about what stakeholders thought, wanted or demanded because for them the national convention is a fait accompli. "At this point, it is fair to point out that the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, is with them alongside a few unpatriotic ministers that are equally playing overlords in their states." Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the APC has been enmeshed in various crises with fears rising that this could jeopardise the chances of the party to retain power at the Federal level next year. In January, some aggrieved members of the party dragged the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee before a Federal High Court in Abuja over plans to hold a national convention in February. The applicants prayed the court to restrain the committee from going ahead with the convention because state congresses were yet to be completed in all 36 states of the federation. In a bid to put out the raging fire within the party, state governors elected on the platform of the APC held an emergency meeting in Abuja in January to discuss issues surrounding the national convention and grievances of members calling for its postponement. Worried that the internal wranglings within the APC could cause bigger problems, President Muhammadu Buhari in January said that the party risked losing control of power at the national level in Nigeria if it failed to resolve all crises within its fold.