The Agbekoya Farmers’ Society of Nigeria has warned those involved in the attack on the Soka residence of Yoruba agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho to desist from such. The group condemned Saturday’s attack on Igboho's house, which led to the death of one of the agitator's aides while many others sustained injuries. Sunday Igboho SaharaReporters on Sunday reported that one of Igboho’s aides whisked away by the assailants had also been killed, according to a source who provided the newspaper with pictures of the victim's corpse. Reacting in an interview with Punch, the Secretary-General of Agbekoya, Adegbenro Ogunlana said members of the group would not hesitate to fight Igboho’s enemies, because any attack on him would be considered to be an attack on the Yoruba people. Ogunlana said, “Whoever is behind the attack on Chief Sunday Igboho’s house is an enemy of the Yoruba people. We condemn the attack and we ask the police to arrest and prosecute them. 



See Also






Human Rights
Igboho Files N570 Million Suit Against Benin Republic For Unlawful Detention, Violation Of Rights
0 Comments
8 Hours Ago





“We will not hesitate to fight against whosoever is fighting against Chief Sunday Igboho, because he is a freedom fighter and he is fighting for the Yoruba race.” On Friday, the group had called for the release of Igboho, the President-General of Agbekoya, Kamorudeen Okikiola, reiterated the threat issued by the group that it would use traditional means to bring Igboho out of the prison if Benin Republic refused to release him. According to him, members of the group do not need to step on the soil of the country to bring the detainee out but said they were giving Benin Republic another chance due to the intervention of some Yoruba traditional rulers and leaders, who pleaded with them to allow the law to take its course first. Okikiola stated, “What I said in Osogbo that we would use traditional means to secure his release is still valid. We have the power to do that. They have taken him to another detention place since we said that and they have changed the guards, but that cannot stop us when we are ready. 



See Also






News
Thugs Invade Igboho's Residence In Ibadan, One Person Killed, Several Others Injured
0 Comments
1 Day Ago





“His mother has been sick as a result of this and do they want the woman to die? Benin Republic should not allow the Nigerian government to corrupt them; they should release him.” Meanwhile, the agitator who has been in detention in Benin Republic since July 19, 2021, has approached the Community Court of Justice of the Economic Community of West African States in Abuja to demand $1 million as damages for the period he has been imprisoned in Benin Republic. Igboho, through his lawyer, Tosin Ojaomo, sought a declaration that Benin Republic’s actions regarding his unlawful, arbitrary arrest and detention, violated his freedom of movement, his right to an unbiased trial within a reasonable time and his dignity. Ojaomo, in the application dated February 10, 2022, sought an order for the immediate and unconditional release of Igboho, along with his Nigerian passport, pending litigation and determination on damages.