The management of Vision FM Media Services has told the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) that it did not violate any law to warrant the suspension of one of its programmes titled (DON MIKIYA). The radio station said the discussion about the qualifications for appointment at the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) does not constitute a breach of section 39(3) (b) of the 1999 Constitution as claimed by the commission.  The station is being punished for the discussion regarding NIA which was had during one of its programmes.This was contained in a letter dated February 1, 2022, signed by its chairman of the media organisation, Umar Faruk Musa and addressed to the Director-General of the Commission. The letter added that the discussion that was had has no bearing with transmitting trade secrets or other issues regarding national security and could not have been justifiably tagged as such. Musa noted that the order of suspension was a clear breach of principles of natural justice adding that the suspension order did not point out the offensive part of the programme, who amongst the panellist uttered the statement, what evidence was led to substantiate the claim and who led the evidence and its correlation with the section allegedly violated prior to the suspension order. The letter, therefore, appealed to NBC to review and lift the suspension order and set aside the five million naira (N5 million) fine unjustifiably imposed on them. 



See Also






News
Nigerian Government Suspends Popular FM/TV Programme, Idon Mikiya, Fines Radio Station For Discussing NIA Director-General’s Alleged Incompetence
0 Comments
2 Days Ago





The letter read in part, "Our discussion of issues and appointment at the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) does not and cannot by whatever stretch of imagination constitutes a breach of section 39(3) (b) of the 1999 Constitution especially having regards to the unequivocal provisions of the Section. "In our respectful view, Section 39(3) (b) by its purport and intendment is a restriction designed to control holders of public offices or head of security agencies from enjoying the general freedom of expression enjoined by media and Nigerian citizen at large. It could not have been fairly resorted to justifying the suspension. "The Discussion had no bearing with transmitting trade secrets or other issues regarding National security and as such could not have been justifiably tagged as such. "That the discussion on the qualifications for appointment at the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) had dominated the mainstream and online media even before 5th January, 2022. [don Mikiya programme of 5th January, 2022 was not the originator of the discussion surrounding the appointment at NIA and justice will better be served if the originators of the discussion are uncovered and sanctioned appropriately if same is viewed offensive. Attached herewith for your perusal are copies of some reports which were published before 5th January 2022. "In view of the foregoing, we respectfully appeal to the Director-General, to use your good offices to lift the suspension and set aside the Five Million Naira fine unjustifiably imposed on us. "The suspension and fine orders are undeserving and unwarranted having regards to the reasons set out above. We do hope the Commission will act without fear or favour or ill will and in a manner that will guarantee and not undermine the enjoyment of the freedom of expression and independence of the media. "While we await your usual prompt positive response, please accept the assurance of our highest regards and preparedness to avail ourselves for further discussion on this issue should you find this desirable."