Despite denying the involvement of its officer in the assault of 30-year-old Adeosun, a traveller and his mother, Caroline; Qatar Airways has blacklisted Adeosun from using its services. SaharaReporters had reported how officials of Qatar Airways slapped Adeosun’s mother, Caroline across of the face at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, when he was travelling to Oslo, Norway, for a professional medical examination on February 1, 2020. Qatar Airways aircraft.  EXCLUSIVE: Medical Doctor And Mother Brutalised By @QatarAirways Officials At Lagos Airport, Son Prevented From Boarding Flight For Recording Assault On Mother | Sahara Reporters https://t.co/3QG99P47BQ pic.twitter.com/7Gh4qbqR9Y  Despite having an electronic boarding pass already, Adeosun and other passengers were subjected to screening at the airline's counter. A few minutes into the process, an official of Qatar Airways stopped the screening and tried to dismiss all persons waiting to be attended to without offering any reasonable explanation. Desperate to find out what had gone wrong and to plead with the Qatar Airways staff to allow her son to board the flight since he had already done electronic clearance, Caroline approached an official named Ada for help. Immediately she touched the woman’s arm to get her attention, Ada, according to Caroline, landed a 'heavy' slap on her face without any provocation.  Moment @qatarairways Staff In Lagos Airport Slapped Mother Of TravellerWATCH FULL VIDEO: https://t.co/jMI6qxEZqr@FAAN_Official @NigerianCAA pic.twitter.com/XBEIoPDhoz  Reacting, Qatar Airways, through its Vice President, Corporate Communications, Ian Bradley, denied that the female official, who assaulted Caroline was their staff member. The airways also claimed that the passenger assaulted the airport staff member, adding that “the matter is being further investigated as the airline does not condone violence of any kind”. SaharaReporters, however, gathered that Qatar Airways has blacklisted Adeosun and asked for an apology from him and his mother before his name would be taken off the blacklist. Caroline queried why the airline would request an apology letter when she was the victim of verbal and physical assault. “Why did Qatar blacklist him (my son) after they had said the person that slapped me is not their staff member. “Qatar is asking me to come and apologise to them before they can remove my son’s name from the list. I was at the security post of the airport when they said I should write an apology letter. “My son did not do anything and they are asking us to apologise when they actually assaulted us.” She, therefore, asked for the refund of the financial loss the family had incurred to ensure the son travelled for his examination. “Now, we have run into debt running into millions of naira because of what they did. They should refund the money my son paid for the flight ticket. “What are they turning Nigerian into? They can’t accept that in their country. My son had to buy another ticket so that he could travel. “Qatar Airways made us run into loss of millions of naira. He had paid for the hotel he would lodge, and the examination he was going for but Qatar Airways disrupted the plans of my son,” she lamented.