Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has accused the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission of harassing the people of the South-East to forsake their 2023 presidential ambition. The President-General of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, OYC, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, stated this in a statement issued on Tuesday, noting that it had become a norm for the EFCC to go after the people of the South-East once they showed interest in the presidential race.  SaharaReporters had reported that the commission on Monday filed N2.9billion fraud charges against the Imo West Senator, Rochas Okorocha.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Anti-graft Agency, EFCC, Charges Ex-Imo Governor, Okorocha, With N2.9billion Fraud
0 Comments
18 Hours Ago The fresh fraud charges were filed at the Federal High Court, Abuja, hours after the former governor officially declared his presidential ambition for 2023. In the 17 counts filed on Monday, EFCC alleged that he conspired to steal N2.9bn public funds but the presidential hopeful denied the allegation, describing it as “false”. The anti-graft agency had on Monday filed a 17-count charge against Okorocha over alleged looting of about N2.9billion as governor. Rochas Okorocha, had called the fresh fraud allegations against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission as the handiwork of his political opponents. Ohanaeze advised the EFCC not to return to the ugly days of the former President Olusegun Obasanjo during which the agency was used to intimidate all opposition politicians. Okwu said, “EFCC should stop this needless harassment and intimidation of Igbo politicians simply because of the 2023 general elections. We know the EFCC is acting on a script of a certain politician but we assure them that their evil plot has already crashed like a pack of cards. “No level of antics will intimidate Ndigbo out of the presidential race which is our turn by every indices. They should leave Okorocha, VON DG, Osita Okechukwu and other Igbo men and women alone. “Having said this, we assure Owelle Rochas Okorocha that Ndigbo are proud of him and we stand by him; he should not be cowed but stand firm as we all go into this battle to give Ndigbo their deserved place in the Nigerian polity.” 