The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has begun to grill the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari over alleged drug dealing. The grilling began on Tuesday following the arrest of the disgraced policeman on Monday.  The agency on Monday alleged that Kyari attempted to compromise 25kg of cocaine in the custody of NDLEA.  Sources at NDLEA headquarters told Vanguard that in conformity with lawful practices, officials of the agency are bent on concluding the interrogations of DCP Kyari and his officers/collaborators by the end of work on Wednesday.  A source further said that following the request by the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba that indicted NDLEA officers should be investigated for their roles in the drug bust, the agency would not spare any of its officers involved. When contacted, Director Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi said, “We gave an assurance in our statement on Monday that ‘no stone will be left unturned to ensure that all suspects already in custody and those that may still be indicted in the course of the investigation will face the full wrought of the law at the end of the ongoing probe and that still stands. If anyone has concrete information or evidence, our doors are open.” The NDLEA on Monday announced that an investigation had revealed that Kyari is a member of a drug syndicate that operates across the globe.  The shocking revelation comes amid the police chief's controversial involvement with self-confessed Internet fraudster, Ramon Abbas, popularly known as Hushpuppi.  In July 2021, the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed how Kyari allegedly collaborated with Hushpuppi to jail one of the latter’s associates after a dispute over a $1.1 million scam on a Qatari businessman.  The FBI also alleged that the embattled social media celebrity sent money to Kyari via a third person’s bank account and hosted him in his Dubai apartment.  According to the US Department of Justice, a criminal complaint initiated the prosecution of Hushpuppi as court documents showed that Abbas, 37, pleaded guilty.  The United States Attorney’s Office, Central District of California, had issued an arrest warrant against Kyari.  Hushpuppi has since pleaded guilty to the charges and if convicted risks a 20-year-jail term, three-year supervision upon completion of jail term, and monetary restitution to the tune of $500,000 or more. The court documents also outlined a dispute among members of the Hushpuppi conspiracy, which allegedly prompted him to arrange to have an individual identified as ‘co-conspirator’ Kelly Chibuzor Vincent, jailed in Nigeria by DCP Kyari.  Following the allegations, the top detective was suspended and a panel was set up by the Inspector-General of Police to probe the FBI allegations.     