Justice Module Adebiyi of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Abuja, has struck out the case against the proprietor of Hilton Hotel, Rahmon Adedoyin, and six others over the death of Timothy Adegoke, a student of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile- Ife Osun State. The judge struck out the case on Tuesday, following an application for notice of discontinuance' of the case in pursuant to Section 108 of Administration of Criminal Justice Act ( ACJA) 2015 by the police lawyer who is also the prosecution, Ochogwu Ogbeh. promptnews Ogbeh had told the court that they would like to discontinue all the proceedings in the case for further investigation owing to the fact that they had found new evidence. The court proceedings lasted for ten minutes. Meanwhile there was drama at the court premises when the police officers from the Intelligence Response Team, (IGP-IRT) shielded Adedoyin who arrived in the court in “neck brace” from journalists who tried to film him and other suspects. The police descended on one of the journalists and seized his mobile phone while Adedoyin was hurriedly rushed into the vehicle. Adedoyin is facing a charge of attempted felony, conspiracy, unlawful interference with Adegoke’s corpse, and tampering with the hotel’s receipt and CCTV camera with the intent to destroy evidence that would prove that Adegoke visited the hotel.



See Also






Legal
BREAKING: Timothy Adegoke's Murder: Nigerian Government Discontinues Suit Filed Against Hilton Hotel Owner, Adedoyin, Nine Others In Abuja Court
0 Comments
14 Hours Ago The police excluded Adedoyin from the murder charge, which others who stand trial with him are facing. It would be recalled that a human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) had asked the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, to hand the case file to the Attorney-General of Osun State. Falana spoke for the family of the deceased in a letter dated February 4, and addressed to the police chief. The fiery human rights activist said since the “criminal offences” were committed in Ile-Ife, the suspects should be charged before a court in Osun State. Falana added that if the demand was not met, “we shall not hesitate to institute legal proceedings to compel you to ensure that the criminal proceedings are instituted pursuant to the Criminal Code (34) Laws of Osun State.”