National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, has said that he needs more thinking if he emerges as president of Nigeria in 2023 than physical strength. He stated this when he visited the palace of the Ataoja of Osogbo, Jimoh Olanipekun, in Osun State to inform him of his political ambition on Friday. Tinubu in London There have been concerns from observers over Tinubu’s health status following his recent medical trip to the United Kingdom. At the palace, Tinubu said, “I am not applying for the job of bricklaying or grave digging. I went to school to study accountancy and management. “I am applying for a thinking job and I will do it right. The job I want to do is for Nigeria to be greater and to be proud of itself.” SaharaReporters had in several reports exposed the frail health of the former Lagos governor.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Barely Three Weeks After Declaring Interest In 2023 Presidency, Tinubu Travels Out for Medicals
0 Comments
4 Weeks Ago In July 2021, Tinubu was hospitalised in Maryland, United States. Tinubu, who had several medical trips during the year, had surgeries and was billed for another one over a yet-to-be-disclosed illness. “Tinubu is hospitalised in Maryland, US. His health is failing. He couldn’t participate in launching his Arewa library, and he couldn’t participate in the local government area elections last week. He could not attend today’s APC congress due to health reasons. “He had a surgery last week,” an authoritative source had disclosed at that time. In January 2021, Tinubu was also reported sick and hospitalised in Paris, France. Tinubu had earlier complained of exhaustion and had travelled out to rest before the news of his collapse went viral. He was flown to Paris for medical attention in the first week of January.



See Also






Politics
Ailing Tinubu Reportedly Suffering From 'Chronic Urinary Incontinence', Urinates On His Body In Public During A Visit To Ijebu Monarch
0 Comments
1 Week Ago SaharaReporters had on June 15 reported that Tinubu was also in Paris battling some old age illnesses.