 A throwback photo of suspended and disgraced Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari, campaigning against the use of hard drugs, has been shared online. Kyari was declared wanted by NDLEA on Monday, February 14, and arrested by the police for his alleged involvement with drug lords.  SaharaReporters earlier reported that more senior police operatives and other security agents would be arrested following the detention of Kyari over drug-related offences. Kyari was on Monday declared wanted by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for selling cocaine consignment seized by IRT operatives from drug barons at the Enugu airport in January this year. His involvement in the deal had raised questions in many quarters considering that he was under suspension last year because of his involvement in other criminal activities.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Nigerian Police Arrest DCP Abba Kyari Wanted For Drugs Trafficking
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “Serious infractions have been established against Kyari in relation to drug crimes but the matter was being foot dragged at the police headquarters in Abuja and commands in some states. “People would be picked in other high profile places because the secret has been busted,” one of the sources had said. “The investigation of Kyari on the latest and other pending issues were being deliberately delayed by powerful forces because beyond the suspended deputy commissioner of police and the few officers whose names have been mentioned, there are some senior officers that are directly involved and they know they would be implicated, hence the tactical delay and needless technicalities in handling the matter,” he had said. The latest scandal involving the suspended Kyari came to the fore on Monday, a few hours after the super cop was declared wanted by the NDLEA over his involvement in a 25 kilograms cocaine deal. The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has already handed him over to the NDLEA. The arrest of Kyari dominated discussion at the Force Headquarters Abuja yesterday. Before Monday’s development, the issue of the drug deal involving him and the NDLEA operatives was only known to the top echelon of the NPF, who were in receipt of the communication by the anti-drug agency. It was gathered that the issue was discussed in hush tones by both officers and rank and file of the force on Monday. 