A High Court sitting in Minna, Niger State has sentenced 11 persons to death by hanging after being found guilty of nine counts brought against them. The convicts are Mohammed Mohammed, Baba Mohammed, Mohammed Isah (aka Madu), Abubakar Saba, Mohammed Adamu Babamini, Ibrahim Mohammed Emigi, Haruna Mohammed, Isah Baba Madu, Ndama Sheshi, Isah Mohammed and Mohammed Ndabida from Anfani community in the Lavun local government area of the state. File photo used to illustrate story. But the court discharged and acquitted 15 other defendants over lack of diligent prosecution. All of them were charged before the court last October for attacking Gaba community members with weapons, killing seven persons.  The attack was carried out while surveyors were trying to demarcate the boundaries between Gaba and Anfani communities. Meanwhile, a High Court in Bida had in September 2018, delivered judgement in favour of Gaba community over the disputed farmland.  On Tuesday, Justice Maimuna Talatu Abubakar said the prosecuting counsel proved the charges against the eleven convicts beyond a reasonable doubt. The defence counsel, Lerry Otahagwa, however, pleaded with the judge to temper justice with mercy in her judgement. But the judge said, “I have heard the learned counsel’s plea. I appreciate the learned counsel’s difficulties given the circumstances. I must also acknowledge maturity shown and exemplary conduct during the case at this court.” She added that how grievous the crime is and the “mode it was carried out should not be lost track of”. “I don’t think in the circumstances, there is an extenuating basis for whether the court can make a recommendation. “Consequently, on the first count charge of causing culpable homicide by causing the death of the seven deceased persons, I hereby sentence you to death. I direct that each of you be hanged by the neck until you are dead. May Almighty Allah have mercy on your soul,” Justice Abubakar ruled. She further sentenced them to life imprisonment on one count charge and 14 years imprisonment without the option of fine on another, adding that both jail terms should run consecutively. 