The Chairman of Oyo State Motor Park Managers (PMS), Mukaila Lamidi, popularly called Auxiliary, is keeping the remains of the murdered aide of Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Igboho, in his Diamond Hotel, a source told SaharaReporters on Sunday. Diamond Hotel, which is located in the Alakia-Isebo area of Ibadan, the state capital, is owned by Auxiliary.  Olayomi Koiki, media aide to Igboho, on Saturday told SaharaReporters that one person was killed in an attack by thugs on the Soka residence of his boss, Sunday 'Igboho' Adeyemo, in Ibadan, Oyo State. SaharaReporters learnt that apart from the person who was shot and killed during the attack, one Kabiru Olalekan, popularly called Kokoro, was whisked away by Auxiliary’s men and later killed at his hotel. Releasing pictures of Kokoro to SaharaReporters, a source close to Auxiliary said the police should ask the PMS Chairman to produce Kokoro, who was whisked away.The source said the police should demand to see the remains of Kokoro. The source said "I am afraid for the future of this state. This could happen to anyone. The unfortunate man has been killed. They invaded Igboho's house without a cogent reason, killed one person and took Kokoro away. "They will not believe how this picture got to the public domain because they didn't allow anyone to snap it," the source said. The wife of the deceased, Rofiat Olalekan, and his younger sister, Amdalat Olalekan, in separate interviews with SaharaReporters, said they were just hearing that Kokoro had been killed but refused to believe it. “We want him alive; we cannot believe he is dead," the wife said. One person was reported killed in an attack by thugs on Igboho’s house in Ibadan. This was made known by Koiki, a media aide to Igboho, in an interview with SaharaReporters on Saturday. According to him, several of the agitator's supporters, who were in the house during the attack, sustained injuries. This was also confirmed in a video he shared with SaharaReporters. The thugs reportedly stormed Igboho’s house and fired shots, leading to the death of one of Igboho's supporters. A voice in the video seen by SaharaReporters said, “Can you see this? This is Oloye Sunday Igboho's house and these are his men that have been attacked without doing anything wrong. "These are the people that got injured, can you see it? They are currently being treated, one of them is dead. The thugs came to attack Sunday Igboho's house. Can you see?”