With only about 15 months left to spend in office, President Muhammadu Buhari is in a hurry to develop Nigeria, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan has said. Lawan said this on Saturday during a visit to Kwara State to witness the launch of the 2022 Empowerment Programme of Senator Sadiq Suleiman Umar, who represents Kwara North at the National Assembly.  The event held at the Kwara State Polytechnic with the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, in attendance. Buhari's administration came into office in 2015 and will be concluding its second term in office in May 2023, about 15 months away. Lawan said, "Development of any nation is not about Federal government doing its best, it is about Federal Government doing its own, working in partnership with the state government and even the local government and that is what we are doing. "Every single project of Federal Government of Nigeria, whether it is a constituency project or direct project from the Federal government, is to complement what the state government is doing and that partnership has been so purposeful that today in every corner, in every part of Nigeria, you have infrastructural development. "The Federal government of President Muhammadu Buhari is in a hurry. We are in a hurry to develop Nigeria. "By 2023, Nigeria would have been turned into an infrastructural laboratory because every part of Nigeria, from the East to the West to the North to the South, there is something going on. "In the East, the second Niger bridge, today it is at 75 to 80 percent completion level. For 20 years, those people, they will go there, do groundbreaking and disappear to the ground. Another person would come, do groundbreaking and disappear to the ground. "President Muhammadu Buhari did only one groundbreaking and today, it is at 75 percent completion level. That is what it is, in every part of Nigeria. "So the synergy between our states and the Federal government is working. It is making Nigeria to develop the infrastructure that we need. We have never seen it done like this one by this administration."