The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has ordered the reinstatement of the security aides withdrawn from the protection details of a member of the House of Representatives, Shina Peller. The order came from the Commandant General, of the NSCDC, Dr. Ahmed Abubakar Audi, on Wednesday.  The statement titled, ‘CG frowns at withdrawal of officials assigned to Member of the House of Representatives, orders reinstatement,’ described the letter earlier sent to the lawmaker as unauthorised. The statement signed by the spokesperson of the security agency, Odumosu Olusola, reads, “The leadership of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has dismissed as unauthorized and without recourse to the Corps constituted authority, a letter signed and sent to a Member of the House of Representatives, Hon Shina Peller, informing him of the withdrawal of officials of the NSCDC assigned to him. “Not only did the officer in question lack the power to do such, he was also found to have acted on his whims without clearance. “The Commandant General, Dr. Ahmed Abubakar Audi, mni, has therefore directed a reinstatement of the withdrawn officers with a compliment of necessary courtesies to the Honourable Member.” SaharaReporters earlier reported the NSCDC had withdrawn all officers attached to the lawmaker representing lseyin/ltesiwaju/ Kajola/lwajowa Federal Constituency in Oyo State in the House of Representatives, Peller. The directive was in a letter dated February 02, 2021, which was addressed to the lawmaker. “Following the directive of the Commandant General on the necessity of the deployment of the Command personnel for an urgent National security assignment,” the letter obtained by SaharaReporters read. “On behalf of the State Commandant, I hereby withdraw the personnel attached to you, this is to meet up with the urgent National need.”  BREAKING: Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC Boss Withdraws All Personnel Attached To APC Party Lawmaker, Shina Peller, For Sponsoring Bill Seeking To Scrap Security Agency | Sahara Reporters https://t.co/J1VheHFK5r pic.twitter.com/w8Hey9KZyZ  Though it was claimed the officers were withdrawn for an urgent “national security assignment”, sources told SaharaReporters that the move was because of a bill sponsored by the lawmaker, seeking to scrap the security agency. Peller had in the bill which passed first reading on Tuesday proposed that the Nigeria Police Force should take over the responsibilities of the NSCDC. The bill is titled “National Security And Civil Defence Corps (Repeal and Transition) Bill 2022”. It seeks to repeal the National Security and Civil Defence Corps (Amendment) Act 2007, establish a transition management committee to superintend over the NSCDC, develop regulations and implement procedures for the transfer of assets and personnel of the corps to the Nigeria Police Force, and other related matters. In the bill, Peller noted that “fragmentation of security resources across multiple competing agencies is counterproductive.” The lawmakers also noted that the mandate of the NSCDC “has now become a duplication of the Nigeria Police Force,” adding, “this has led to avoidable conflicts.” Peller stated, “Every single function of the NSCDC can be done or is being done by the Nigeria Police Force,” while citing “waste of scarce resources,” stressing that the annual budget of the NSCDC is almost N100bn. “The assets and personnel of the NSCDC will be absorbed by the Nigeria Police. So, no loss of jobs.” The NSCDC, which was a voluntary organisation, was converted to a national security outfit by the Olusegun Obasanjo administration.