Nigeria’s anti-graft agency, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Wednesday invited some staff members of the Finance and Account department of the Federal Ministry of Justice over diversion of public funds and financial infractions perpetrated by some officials of the ministry. SaharaReporters gathered that the EFCC wrote to the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, demanding the release of six workers to the anti-graft agency for interrogation.  The workers are Ms Grace Tizhe Ibrahim, Kingsley Iheanecho Moneke, Ojuekaiye Solomon, Mohammed Ibrahim, Smart Taire and Okin Eyo-Okon, a letter obtained by SaharaReporters on Wednesday reveals. Meanwhile, SaharaReporters learnt that Mohammed Ibrahim is the person to whom the ministry wires money in naira, to convert to dollars. “Mohammed Ibrahim is the Bureau de Change (BDC) guy that the ministry wires money to and converts it to dollars,” a top government source told SaharaReporters on Wednesday. They were accused of diversion of public funds and financial infractions.  Titled ‘Investigation Activities: Letter of Invitation’, the letter of invitation reads: “The Commission is investigating an alleged case of diversion of public funds in which names of the undermentioned staff of your ministry featured.  “In view of the above, you are requested to kindly inform/release them to report for an interview with undersigned through the Head, Tax Fraud Section at No 2, Nyata Close, off Tunis Street, Wuse Zone 6, Abuja by 1000 hours on the dates indicated against their names.  “Ojuekaiye Solomon, February 14, 2022; Grace Tizhe Ibrahim, February 15, 2022; Mohammed Ibrahim, February 16, 2022; Okon Eyo-Okon, February 17, 2022; Kingsley Iheanecho Moneke, February 18, 2022; Smart Taire, February 21, 2022. This request is made pursuant to Section 38(1) and (2) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (Establishment) Act 2004.  “Accept the assurances of the Executive Chairman’s highest regards, please,” the letter dated February 7, 2022 and signed by EFCC’s Director of Operations, Abdulkarim Chukkol, read.