The Aide De Camp to Mrs Aisha Buhari, Nigeria's First Lady, Usman Shugaba, has ordered an assault on a man (name withheld) for criticising his governorship ambition on social media.A source told SaharaReporters that the senior police officer is considering running for governor in his home state of Kaduna State. It was gathered that the young man on social media criticised Shugaba for involving in politics despite being a policeman.He also accused him of using the State House security operatives to intimidate supporters of his opponents.The source told SaharaReporters that after the post, Shugaba ordered an assault on the man. He was also arrested and detained at the Nigeria Police Force headquarters for six days.“The young man went on social media and criticised him for aspiring to run for governor while still a policeman as if we are in (late Sani) Abacha’s regime. I was told he and the boy lived in the same estate in Maitama. So, he got him arrested for one week,” the source said.“The boy was really tortured in the cell. He told the young officers to keep beating him until he tell him which of his rivals paid the boy to criticise him on social media. He threatened to kill him if he didn’t talk.“The boy was really tortured that they had to take him to Cedecrest hospital in Abuja immediately he was released after six days. After he was released, he told the boy not to tell anyone unless he would ask his boys to kill him. He claimed nobody can query him for any of his actions.“He has started threatening the boy’s mother as well. He was also forced to confess on camera that he was defaming him of not he won’t be released. Imagine, a law officer acting like a garage boy.”The source called on the First Lady to investigate the matter and demanded justice for the innocent young boy.“We are appealing to our caring mother, Aisha Buhari to investigate this matter. She’s a mother and shouldn’t see another woman crying over her son. Shugaba has been threatening this boy’s mother as well. The First Lady should also ask him to return this young boy’s phone.”Known for controversies, Shugaba in 2020 arrested and detained over a shooting incident at the Presidential Villa.The power drunk police officer and others had forced President Buhari’s Personal Assistant, Saibu 'Tunde' Yusuf out of Aso Villa after he refused to embark on a 14-day isolation period after a trip from Lagos.Shugaba was said to have rough-handled Yusuf, who later escaped to the residence of Mamman Daura, Buhari's nephew and member of the “cabal.”Subsequently, Yusuf with the active connivance of the President’s Chief Security Officer, Idris Kassim, ordered the Federal Capital Territory Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma, to arrest Shugaba, Escort Commander and other policemen attached to the First Lady.It was claimed that gunshots were fired in the process of trying to get Yusuf out of the Villa, thereby breaching security code around Buhari.The incident led to the withdrawal of Mrs Buhari's security details including Shugaba until they were reinstated weeks after.Also in 2019, Shugaba, then ADC to Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State invaded the office of the Nigeria Union of Journalists with armed thugs and policemen.He had claimed he has information that ballot papers and boxes were been thumb-printed at the secretariat.