The UK and European chapter of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, has stated that Nigerians should not support the same set of politicians that has done nothing but dragged the nation backwards. Afenifere Group in the United Kingdom and Europe, in a statement on Sunday, which was obtained by SaharaReporters, noted that Nigerians must be armed with their voter cards and push to change the status quo.  The statement issued by the Secretary, Anthony Ajayi, said, “Now that President Muhammadu Buhari has signed the long-awaited Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law, Nigerians must form a formidable force to ensure 2023 won't be business as usual." Stressing on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, the group said Nigerians have been provided with an opportunity to change the narrative regarding the quality of leadership to govern the country. The statement reads, "We call on all well-meaning Nigerians both within and in the diaspora to put heads together and seize this opportunity to change the status quo. "We must form a formidable force to ensure 2023 won't be business as usual. Getting our Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) is the first step to take. We are aware that there are people still bent on maintaining the status quo and we must put all measures in place to resist them. The mandate lies in the hands of over 200 million Nigerians. “We can no longer allow a few Nigerians to hold down the country in perpetual captivity. Call it cabal, call it whatever, they are all mortals and can't be allowed to keep suppressing development in our dear nation. “Those politicians sitting on the progress of our dear nation, thereby frustrating young Nigerians either directly or indirectly must now let go through our votes. “It is time to rise to the occasion as Nigerians. Nobody will do it for us. We deserve far more than what is on the ground, given the kind of resources we have. To think that we still talk about a stable power supply amongst others, as a country, is really unfortunate. “Any Nigerian that is still drumming support for people whom it is even clear to the blind that they don't mean well for the country and citizens, is worse than Satan. "If all we do is drum up support for the same set of politicians that has done nothing but drag the nation backwards, then you don't mean well for Nigeria. We appeal to you to join the change of the status quo. "Nigeria needs a new Constitution or leaders who will implement the report of the 2014 National Confab. Nigeria needs state police to mitigate the insecurity that is ravaging the entire country. This will not happen unless we vote into power the right leaders who want growth and development for Nigeria. "We as Afenifere Group can only support a candidate ready to restructure Nigeria. The current structure cannot bring development to the country. Nigeria needs a new Constitution or leaders who will implement the report of the 2014 Nation Confab. Nigeria needs state police to mitigate the insecurity that is ravaging the entire country. This will not happen unless we vote into power the right leaders who want growth and development for Nigeria."