Nearly eight years after 276 schoolgirls were abducted in Chibok, Borno State, parents of about 110 girls yet to be rescued have again cried out, demanding that the girls be rescued unharmed. Some of the parents, speaking with SaharaReporters, believed that authorities in Nigeria were not doing enough to secure the release of the remaining 110 girls, eight years after they were forcibly taken by Boko Haram terrorists. Chibok girls in captivity In 2014, 276 female students were abducted by Boko Haram militants in Chibok Secondary School, out of the number, 110 are still unaccounted for. Although the Nigerian Government has repeatedly claimed it is doing its best to free them from the terrorists, their traumatised parents feel otherwise. They have accordingly resorted to entreating the international community to wade into the matter by pressuring the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government to bring back their girls. Ayuba Adamson, one of the parents, told SaharaReporters that "we have been traumatised, leading to the death of some of us. Those of us whose kids are still unaccounted for are living in mournful conditions since their abduction, nearly eight years now. "We feel badly neglected; it feels like the government has abandoned our dear daughters to be destroyed by the terrorists. By April it would be 8 years since they were forced into the jungle. "We can't fathom how authorities are getting girls from Zamfara, Kebbi and other parts of the Northwest freed, but same is not happening here. "While we rejoice with parents of the kids in the Northwest, we feel bad that our case is different", he said. Another parent, Musa Ali lamented that besides the trauma, communities in Chibok had been witnessing escalated violent attacks recently, leading to invasion of farms and carting away produces. He said, "On January 14, 2022, Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists, attacked Chibok, killed 3 and kidnapped 5 girls; beside burning houses and churches. "We're in a panic mode all through, expecting the terrorists to strike any moment. Our lives have been rendered miserable, because hope of seeing our missing girls has continued to deem. "However, we'll continue to demand that authorities should fear God and bring back our girls", he said.