President Muhammadu Buhari has boasted the Lagos-Ibadan rail and road projects, saying people in the South-West would have been trekking between the two cities by now if not for him. According to a statement by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President, Media & Publicity, Buhari said this while hosting a delegation from Kaduna State, led by the state deputy governor, Hadiza Sabuwa Balaraba and the Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli, at the State House in Abuja.  Buhari was quoted as saying his administration had improved the commuting from Lagos to Ibadan in the South-West through the Lagos-Ibadan rail and road projects. “The people from South-West can tell better because between Lagos and Ibadan by now, if we hadn’t done what we did, people would have been trekking because the road was not there, the rail was not there and there was so much insecurity. “But we thank the international community. We thank China and Chinese investors, who came along to support the Lagos-Ibadan transport projects,’’ he said. The President, who described infrastructure as integral to the development of any country, further said, “My objective was very clear, despite the dwindling resources, I wanted to deal with infrastructure across the country. “We should look at advancement in terms of Infrastructure. No country can advance without infrastructure. There used to be railways, especially people from Southern Kaduna will remember this. “Which country can really advance without road, rail and power, that’s why I wanted to sort out infrastructure, knowing that Nigerians are competitive by nature, and they will face their businesses when there’s road, rail and power.”  Also according to the statement, the President sent his regards to the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, saying he now needs a compass to go around the state because of the new development there. “Please extend my gratitude to the Governor for doing so well. I have been living in Kaduna for many years before I came here, but now I will need a modern compass to go around because of the transformation,’’ he said.