One hundred political and thought leaders including 14 current governors, 13 former governors have met in Lagos to ‘rescue Nigeria’ and map out a new consensus for national rebirth. The leaders, under the aegis of ‘The 2022 Committee’, said Nigeria must be peaceful and united before the nation can have candidates for political offices in 2023.  This was made known in a statement released on Wednesday and co-signed on behalf of the conveners by Nduka Obaigbena and Kashim Ibrahim-Imam. The group also refuted attempts to link it with candidates or political parties for the 2023 elections, describing the move as “an unwarranted and unnecessary distraction.” The statement read, “100 leading business, political, civil society and thought leaders met in Lagos over the last weekend from February 4-6, 2022 under the aegis of The 2022 Committee, in a non-partisan retreat, to map a new consensus for national rebirth. “The attendance list included 14 current Governors and 13 former Governors as well as 3 former Senate Presidents. Working in 3 Sub-Committees of National Security, The Economy and Nigeria in Transition, the participants recognised that there is an urgent need to seek common ground and irreducible minimum actions to stabilise the polity at this critical time of transition. “The meetings will continue, as we work with Federal and State Governments, current and future political leaders of all political persuasions, as well as other eminent patriotic citizens, for the greater good of the Nigerian people. “Whilst The 2022 Committee is interested in the quality of leadership that will emerge in Nigeria at all levels, we consider attempts to link the Committee with candidates or political parties for the 2023 elections as an unwarranted and unnecessary distraction - candidates are only chosen by political parties and we are not a political party. “All the 100 leading lights of the 2022 Committee have the capacity for national leadership; indeed, amongst the very active participants in the work of the Committee are over 7 persons, from 3 or more political parties, who have already publicly declared their aspiration to lead the country but are desirous of working with other patriots for non-partisan greater national goals. We must have a secure, peaceful and united nation before we can have candidates for political offices. “The Committee believes that what Nigeria needs today is for all patriots to come together to rescue our nation from all political, economic and security threats, and promote the unity of Nigeria. We call on all patriotic volunteers, who are willing and able, to join this collective effort to stabilise the system so we can all build a new Nigeria we can all be proud of.”