A former Director of Nigerian Navy Accounts, Rear Admiral Tahir Yusuf (retd.), on the wanted list of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), is planning to flee the country, sources close to the retired military officer told SaharaReporters. The anti-graft agency had accused Yusuf of stealing N2 billion belonging to the Nigerian government while serving as Director of Nigerian Navy Accounts.  In 2020, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of a Federal High Court in Abuja ordered the permanent forfeiture of about N500 million found to be fraudulently amassed by the military officer to the Nigerian government. The total amount forfeited was N392, 695,857.87, including $91,955.38 and the sum of £15,050 held in domiciliary accounts. Yusuf, previously second-in-command to the Chief of Account and Budget, Naval Headquarters (NHQ), held the cash in seven accounts- both private and corporate in two banks.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Retired Navy Rear-Admiral Wanted For N2billion Fraud, Connives With Policemen, Orders Thugs To Shoot At Kaduna Residents
0 Comments
1 Week Ago The seven accounts were operated under the name of a company, Bitmas Enterprise, in Zenith Bank while two were held in Yusuf’s name in the defunct Skye Bank, now Polaris Bank. Following the forfeiture, SaharaReporters gathered that Yusuf fled Nigeria to Dubai, United Arab Emirate. The EFCC and National Intelligence Agency also asked the Nigeria Immigration Service and Interpol to place him on a watch list and have him arrested at the point of entry or exit. However, Yusuf sneaked back to the country in October 2021 after he illegally obtained an international passport with the help of some corrupt government officials through the Niger Republic, a source had told SaharaReporters.



See Also






Corruption
How Retired Rear Admiral, Yusuf On EFCC Wanted List Bought Multi-billion Naira Properties While Serving At Defence Intelligence Agency
0 Comments
1 Week Ago Following the release of different leaked audios of an EFCC operative, Mohammed Idris, giving hints on how to defeat the anti-graft commission to his younger brother, Abdulbari, sources told SaharaReporters that the retired military officer has concluded plan to flee the country over the fear of being arrested. “The retired Admiral has over the past month been meeting Emirs to intercede on his behalf but it seems that is not working, so the new plan is to sneak out through Chad, cause he is scared he might be arrested any day soon with all the recent developments,” one of the sources said.