The suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari, is not new to being enmeshed in corruption cases. The latest scandal is his involvement in a 25kilogramme cocaine deal. Abba Kyari Femi Babafemi, spokesperson of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) had declared Kyari wanted because he did not honour the invitation sent to him. The development comes just a few months after the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had indicted the once respected police officer of conspiring with Ramon Olorunwa Abbas, alias Hushpuppi, the self-confessed international fraudster, in a $1.1 million scam. The indictment prompted his suspension from the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) while the accusations are still being investigated. However, in July 2021, a resident of Borno State said that the bribery allegation against Kyari by Hushpuppi, didn't come to him as a surprise.



See Also






Scandal
Nigeria's Embattled 'Super Cop', Abba Kyari Building Multi-million Naira Mansion In Borno, Offered Neigbour N70million To Remove Building— Resident Alleges
0 Comments
6 Months Ago The resident in a private message to a Nigerian academic and media scholar, Professor Farooq Kperogi had claimed the suspended officer was building a mansion on Jemina Road, Damboa, Borno State. Claiming the gate of the house was made of glass and steel, he had alleged that the police chief offered N70million to a neighbour who had a house behind his mansion “so he could have his house out of the way to enable him have straight access to the main road from this mansion.”



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Nigerian Anti-drug Agency, NDLEA Starts Grilling Disgraced Police Officer, Abba Kyari, Other Collaborators
0 Comments
20 Hours Ago "Good evening Prof. Just reading your post on the Abba Kyari saga. It didn't come to me as a surprise. Kyari is so super rich for the job he does. He is building a mansion on Jemina road of Damboa, that house is something else. It is the first gigantic double-gated house I'm seeing in Maiduguri, the gate is made of glass and steel. "He wanted paying (sic) of a neighbour who has a house behind him 70 million naira so he can have his house out of the way to enable him have straight access to the main road from this mansion. And with a couple of people who have told stories implicating him, and them being shut up, it doesn't come as a surprise at all,” Kperogi had quoted the Borno resident as saying. 