A filling station in the Ogijo area of Ogun State along Ikorodu-Sagamu Expressway, Accurate Global Energy and Gas Limited, on Monday, charged car owners, who drove in to buy petrol N500 each before they are attended to.  Commercial motorcycle riders known in local parlance as Okada, were charged N300 each while persons who came with plastic containers to purchase petrol, were asked to pay N200 each before the product was sold to them.  A bunch of desperate buyers swarmed the filling station on Monday when one of our correspondents visited the place.  The three attendants at the filling station despite being overwhelmed by the buyers went on with their activities as more car owners and others streamed into the place.  Customers, who refused to pay the amount demanded by officials of the filling station were not attended to and were soon forced out of the place.  Some military personnel, who came to the place to fill their van, ignored complaints by customers about the extortion being perpetrated by officials of the filling station.  An aggrieved car owner told SaharaReporters that officials of the filling station were capitalising on the scarcity of the product in some parts of the country to extort them.  "They are not willing to listen to your complaint or plea, you have to pay them an extra N500 to be able to buy petrol from this outlet.  "This is very wrong, they are simply capitalising on the scarcity in some places to milk us dry," the man said.  An attendant told our correspondent, who posed as a buyer, that they were charging the amount to cover for the cost of making the product available when others were hoarding it.  "We are the only ones selling petrol along this axis today.  "So, the amount we are asking you to pay on top of the petrol you want to buy is the cost of making the product available.  "We are only selling to those ready to pay this amount," the male attendant named Dada Kehinde, said.  Other filling stations around the area, including Total and Collakins did not sell the product on Monday, claiming to be out of stock.  Petrol scarcity has since last week hit some parts of Nigeria after the import of millions of gallons of adulterated fuel from abroad caused a shortage in the supply of the product across the country. The Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited was forced to order a recall of the contaminated fuel after complaints that it was damaging car engines, further escalating the situation.  Despite pumping in millions of clean imported petrol into the country in recent days, demand for the product remains high across the country.