The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Lagos State House of Assembly in Ikorodu Constituency 1, Gbolahan Ogunleye is currently enmeshed in a certificate forgery scandal.  Gholahan, who is a son of Prince Abiodun Ogunleye, former Lagos State deputy governor, in May during the APC primaries defeated the House Majority Leader, Sanai Agunbiade, who has represented the constituency for almost 20 years.  Sources said despite failing to present some vital documents such as his birth and West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) certificates during screening, he was cleared because of his father’s influence. Gbolahan claimed to have graduated with a pass in Economics from Lagos State University in the 1999/2000 set but documents obtained by SaharaReporters show that the APC candidate’s name is not on the school’s brochure, listing the names of graduating students for the set. Checks by SaharaReporters on the list of graduates for the set show that none of them graduated with a pass.  The list stops with Economics graduates with Third-class degrees as seen on the university’s brochure and none of the graduates listed is Ogunleye Gbolahan Adetokunbo.  “You can see the results stopped at Third class as seen on the university brochure and there is no name like his on it.  “Economics stops at page 108 of that brochure. Every LASU graduate has their name published in the university brochure. Mr Gbolahan Ogunleye should present a brochure that has his name published,” an employee of LASU told SaharaReporters. The university authorities also confirmed Gbolahan’s record could not be found in the Examination and Records Division.  “Having gone through records available at the Examinations and Records Division, I write to confirm that there is no record that the Notification of Result in respect to Mr OGUNLEYE Gbolahan Adetokunbo with Matriculation Number 94/06/01/092 was issued to him by the university,” a letter signed by Odusami Adetutu, Deputy Registrar of the institution read.   SaharaReporters however learnt that Adetutu has been queried for issuing the letter saying Gbolahan Ogunleye has no records in the school. The Deputy Registrar who issued the disclaimer on June 28, 2022, was said to have been issued a query by the school management under the influence of Gbolahan’s father. Another letter dated July 14, 2022, was issued saying the APC candidate graduated with a pass.  “The Deputy Registrar who issued the first one has been queried and already put into trouble because of Gbolahan. Remember his father is a former deputy governor,” a source told SaharaReporters.  “A member of LASU Governing Council is close to Gbolahan Ogunleye’s father. He was the one who influenced the second letter.”  However, efforts to reach Gbolahan Ogunleye were not successful as calls to his mobile line were not answered nor returned.  A text message also sent to his line had not been replied to at the time of filing this report.  DOCUMENT : EXCLUSIVE: APC House Of Assembly Candidate And Son Of Former Lagos Deputy Governor, Gbolahan Ogu... by Sahara Reporters on Scribd 