President Muhammadu Buhari says he is leaving behind a legacy of fighting corruption in the country, stressing the need to fight graft for the benefit of present and future generations.  Buhari disclosed this on Thursday while speaking as the special guest of honour as Nigeria marked the 6th African Union Day of Anti-Corruption with a national dialogue on this year’s theme: “Strategies and Mechanisms for the Transparent Management of COVID-19 funds”.  He highlighted the fights that Nigeria has fought against corruption since 2015 and lauded the country’s anti-corruption laws and agencies.  The Nigerian President also urged African leaders to intensify the fight against corruption and create more disincentives for the stealing of public funds.  “Distinguished participants and fellow African leaders, corruption is evil and all efforts at tackling it are desirable. I have monitored the fight against corruption in Africa and I can see both successes and drawbacks.  “The battle must continue for the sake of the continent and its people no matter the difficulties.  “In Nigeria, the fight against corruption has been vigorous since 2015. A lot has been achieved in the areas of arrest, prosecution, conviction, asset recovery and anti-corruption laws.  “I must admit that the fight has not been a bed of roses. Truly, a lot of more work in many fronts is required.  “For example, civil and public servants must be ethical and professional at all times. The private sector must contribute in curbing corruption. The international community needs to close safe havens.  “The judiciary requires more impetus. Perhaps, an International Anti-corruption Criminal Court is needed,” a statement by Garba Shehu, the presidential spokesman quoted Buhari as saying.  Despite having gained power on the back of the promise to fight corruption, which is largely responsible for Nigeria’s rarely improving development crises, Buhari’s government has failed to combat the ills in the public service.  In 2021, a London-based news magazine, The Economist, described the Nigerian President as inept and high-handed, adding that he had also failed to tackle corruption.  The 178-year-old magazine said due to Buhari’s mismanagement of the economy, food prices had soared while life had become more difficult for Nigerians.  The editorial had read in part, “Economic troubles are compounded by a government that is inept and heavy-handed. Mr Buhari, who was elected in 2015, turned an oil shock into a recession by propping up the naira and barring many imports in the hope this would spur domestic production.  “Instead he sent annual food inflation soaring above 20 per cent. He has failed to curb corruption, which breeds resentment. Many Nigerians are furious that they see so little benefit from the country’s billions of petrodollars, much of which their rulers have squandered or stolen.”  The Economist stated that even before COVID-19 in 2020, Nigeria was already witnessing unprecedented poverty. The United States also described the scale of corruption in Nigeria under Buhari’s administration as “massive” and “widespread” According to the 2020 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices released by the US Department of State titled ‘Corruption and Lack of Transparency in Government’, the US said, “Although the law provides criminal penalties for conviction of official corruption, the government did not consistently implement the law, and government employees frequently engaged in corrupt practices with impunity.  “Massive, widespread, and pervasive corruption affected all levels of government, including the judiciary and security services.  “The constitution provides immunity from civil and criminal prosecution for the president, vice president, governors, and deputy governors while in office. There were numerous allegations of government corruption during the year.”  The report was released on March 30, 2021. 