The Metropolitan Archbishop of Owerri, Catholic Archdiocesan, Most Rev. Lucius Ugorji, has condemned the massacre of 14 youths who were wedding guests in Awomama, Oru West Local Government of Imo State by gunmen suspected to operatives of the South East Ebubeagu Security outfit.SaharaReporters had reported that the unprovoked killing of the 14 young men from Otulu community and other places that came for traditional marriage in Awomama has continued to generate outrage across the country. While eyewitness accused the Ebubeagu Security outfit of the killings, Governor Hope Uzodinma has absolved them, saying that it was the Nigeria secret police, the Department of State Services (DSS) that carried the massacre.Also, the State Director of DSS had also accepted that its operatives invaded the camp of “unknown gunmen in Awomama where the so called criminals were killed.”But the Archbishop Ugorji in statement issued on Friday titled: "The Blood Of Abel Cries To High Heavens", said the killings of the wedding guests had no justification and should not be swept under the carpet. He demanded that all those involved whether DSS or Ebubeagu be brought to justice.While he described the killing as barbaric, offensive and totally unacceptable no matter the reason, the cleric stated that "Law and Order are not synonymous with jungle justice."The statement partly read: "The gruesome murder of some youths at Awomama in Imo State a few days ago has caused public outrage. Since this incident, there have been various narratives about who carried out this dastardly and abominable act, and why."While some members of the public blame government and her security outfit EbubeAgu for murdering unarmed and defenceless young men coming back from a wedding, The DSS Director, on the other hand, confirmed that his men carried out an operation in a camp, where those he described as 'bandits' were killed, as a means of ensuring public security."Our aim is not to delve into this web of contradictory narratives, but to unequivocally condemn this mindless blood-letting, and similar senseless killings, which have bedevilled Igbo society, especially Imo State in recent times."The Catholic Archbishop lamented that the soil of Imo State had been defiled by the abominable shedding of innocent blood."We are becoming a society that has no regard for the sanctity of human life and are ready to waste human life at the least provocation. How many of our youths have been cut down in their prime?"No society can flourish or survive when her future leaders and productive sector of the population are mercilessly mowed down for mere suspicion. Like Abel's blood (Gen 4:10), the blood of many slaughtered youths in our land is crying to high heaven. "Similarly, like the lamentations of Rachel at Ramah (Gen 30:1), the lamentations of mothers, who have lost their beloved ones at Awomama, are inconsolable. Law and order are not synonymous with jungle justice. While no one should condone any form of banditry or lawlessness from any quarters, yet jungle justice and extra judicial killings cannot be a solution to the challenges of law and order."Let us reiterate here that we condemn all killings from all quarters, whether private or public, whether by overzealous, trigger-happy security men or by paramilitary or cults groups. As moral agents, no one should clearly aim at taking away human life no matter the circumstances."The Awomama massacre should not be swept under the carpet. That slaughter, no matter the reasons, is barbaric, offensive, and totally unacceptable. Enough is enough!"We, therefore, call on government to undertake a thorough and transparent investigation in order to unearth the perpetrators of the heinous crime and bring them to book. For public accountability in this matter is the only way to assuage public anger on the merciless killing and stop dangerous rumours."He however, prayed God to grant eternal life to the deceased and console the bereaved families.