One of the Boko Haram members who escaped during Tuesday’s terrorist attack on Kuje Correctional Centre in Abuja, the nation’s capital has voluntarily returned.  Sources said the suspect, identified as Bukar Bukar, was brought back to the facility by his lawyer (name withheld) on Wednesday evening.  “One of the Boko Haram members was arrested by Nigerian soldiers, and another Boko Haram inmate was brought back by his lawyer yesterday,” one of the sources said.  On Wednesday, the Islamic State-backed faction of Boko Haram, known as the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) in a video claimed responsibility for the attack.  In the video, the terrorist sect showed some of its men shooting their way into the facility.  Though the Nigeria Correction Service’s spokesperson, Umar Abubakar, said one Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps personnel and four inmates died during the incident, a source told SaharaReporters that 10 inmates were killed during the incident. See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: How Terrorists Attacked Kuje Prison With Massive Firepower, Preached For 20 Minutes, Gave Us Transport Fare And Ordered Us To Leave – Escaped Inmate
0 Comments
6 Hours Ago Another source also dismissed the claim by the Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, that 64 Boko Haram members escaped, saying that over 201 members of the group were unaccounted for. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: 10 Inmates, Nigerian Civil Defence Officer Killed During Attack By Ansaru Terrorists On Kuje Prison
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “A total of 879 inmates escaped from the facility during the unfortunate attack. As of the time of this report, 443 have been recaptured, 551 inmates are currently in custody, 443 inmates are still at large, 4 inmates are dead and 16 inmates sustained various degrees of injuries and are being treated at the moment. However, efforts are ongoing to recapture all fleeing inmates,” NCS spokesperson had said.  “The Service will deploy its Corrections Information Management System in synergy with National Identity Management Commission to track all fleeing inmates and return them to custody.” 