The Osun State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun Corps has been restrained from participating in Saturday’s governorship election duties in the state, either as security personnel or volunteers.  A Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo, the State capital, ruled that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should not make use of the Amotekun Corps as part of the personnel to be deployed to provide security in the election.  The presiding judge, Ayo Emmanuel ruled “that 1st (INEC) defendant is hereby restrained from requesting the deployment of the 2nd defendant (Amotekun Corps) as part of the security deployable for the purpose of Osun 2022 Governorship election pending the determination of the originating summons filed in the suit.” The court also forbids Amotekun operatives from serving as either security personnel or volunteers in the election. “That the 2nd defendant (Amotekun Corps) is hereby restrained from deploying or volunteering her officers, agents, staffs as part of the security personnel deployable for the purpose of Osun Governorship Election pending the determination of originating summons filed in this suit.” The case was adjourned to July 20, 2022. There have been fears that governors in the South-West could use Amotekun Corps under their control for personal agenda. And in the case of Osun governorship election, opposition parties in the state were afraid that the All Progressives Congress government of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola could deploy Amotekun Corps personnel to intimidate members of the opposition and rig the election.  For instance, chairmen of the PDP in Lagos, Osun, Ekiti and Ogun states had in 2021 raised the alarm over an alleged plan by Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, to take over 150 armed thugs dressed in Amotekun uniforms to Osogbo, Osun State, for the Southwest Zonal Congress.  Ogun State PDP Chairman, Dr. Sikirulai Ogundele, who spoke on behalf of others had said no Amotekun Corps operative would be allowed close to the venue of the congress. 