Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has joined world leaders in offering his condolences to the family of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who was assassinated on Friday. Abe was killed during an election rally in the western Japanese city of Nara. He was reported to have arrived in hospital with no vital signs and was proclaimed dead as a result of blood loss shortly afterwards.  His suspected killer was apprehended at the scene after having fired his weapon twice. He was identified by the police as a 41-year-old resident of the city. Abe held the office of the prime minister of Japan from 2006 to 2007 and again from 2012 to 2020, which made him the longest-serving leader in the country’s modern history. He resigned due to developing health problems, but remained an influential figure in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. His public appearance was to deliver a speech on behalf of the Nara Prefecture’s representative, who is seeking a new term in the upcoming parliamentary election. However, President Buhari in his condolence message issued through his media aide, Femi Adesina, on Friday in Abuja, condoled with the government and people of Japan over the incident. News Agency of Nigeria reported that Mr Buhari joined all Japanese in mourning the loss of the country’s longest-serving prime minister and outstanding leader, assuring the family of Mr Abe of the prayers and thoughts of all Nigerians during this difficult time. The report quoted Buhari to have said that Mr Abe will be remembered for his unwavering commitment to strengthening trade and investment between Africa and Japan through various initiatives and partnerships, using the instrumentality of Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD). He disclosed that under Mr Abe, Nigeria and Japan enjoyed a strategic partnership, supporting each other’s shared aspirations on economic cooperation, healthcare, human resource development, disaster risk reduction, peace and security. The Nigerian leader prayed that the memory of the Japanese statesman and respected international leader would be a blessing to his nation and people, whom he served so devotedly.