 The sacked Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Service Commission (LAHASCOM), Olawale Mogaji, says he will go to court to seek redress following his sacking by the Assembly during plenary.  In a unanimous decision on Thursday, lawmakers voted for the sacking of Mogaji.   His sacking was approved after a voice vote by members of the House at plenary. His dismissal was announced in a statement by Eromosele Ebhomele, the Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa. The statement read in part, “Mogaji’s sack was approved after a voice vote by members of the House at plenary.  “The lawmakers appointed Mrs. Folashade Raulat Latona as the new Secretary of the Commission. Latona replaces Mrs. Esther Lambo, who retired recently. “The House also confirmed Barrister Olalekan Onafeko as the substantive Clerk of the House while it elevated three other senior staff to the position of Deputy Clerks. “Those elevated Deputy Clerks include Mr. Babs Animashaun, Mr. Taiwo Otun and Mrs. Adenike Oshinowo.  “Onafeko was appointed Acting Clerk in 2020.”  Reacting, Mogaji in a statement noted that due process was not followed with the termination of his appointment.  The former chairman claimed democracy had been bastardised with the conduct of those who are supposed to ensure the rule of law and sanctity of justice.  "I heard through the news that the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly sack my appointment (sic) as Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Services Commission at the plenary today.  "It is very sad that our Democracy has been basterdise (sic) with the conduct of those who are supposed to ensure the rule of law and sanctity of justice.  "The speaker without recourse to the Service rules has been operating the commission like a unit of the assembly.  "Recently, he appointed Mr Olalekan Onafeko on GL- 15 as Clerk of the House whereas, to be appointed as a clerk of the house, you must be a full Director on GL-17.  "Also, today, he appointed another woman, Mrs Raulat Latona on GL-15 to be the secretary of the Commission, you must also be a full Director on GL-17," he said in a statement sent to SaharaReporters.  Mogaji said the alleged unilateral action taken by the Speaker of the House had affected the activities of the commission, adding that Obasa always saw any attempt to advise him on the need to follow due process as an affront.  However, the embattled former LAHASCOM Chairman said he would remain steadfast and allow the law to take its course to protect his integrity. 