Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has again condemned the incessant terrorist attacks going on across Nigeria. Ortom described Nigeria as being under siege due to the activities of terrorists who have been killing, maiming, kidnapping, and raping Nigerians, and recently attacking churches and Christian clerics. Benue Governor Samuel Ortom The governor stated this in London while addressing Nigerian nationals in the diaspora and friends of Nigeria at the Freedom of Religion and Belief International Ministerial Fringe Events on Nigeria, organised by Para-Mallam Peace Foundation and the International Peace-Building and Social Justice. This was disclosed in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Diaspora Affairs, Rev. Peter Ichull on Friday. He advised that Nigeria should uphold certain freedoms for all people as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the constitutions of most nations, including Nigeria and other rights documents to end the menace. He said: “The bombing of Churches and killing of worshippers was a calculated attempt to send fear into the living to restrict their religious freedom.” Ortom said his government enacted the ‘Benue State Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law 2017’ and other security measures to curb inter-ethnic conflicts in Benue. He advised President Buhari to reflect federal character while making political appointments. He said such a move will promote national unity and peaceful coexistence in the country. He also encouraged the Buhari government to ensure the return and rehabilitation of all Internally Displaced persons to their ancestral lands. According to Ortom, the government should pay full compensation to all victims of religious persecution and insecurity while ensuring that victims of religious persecution get justice. Eighty-five-year-old Baroness Caroline Cox, a member of the British Parliament (House of Lords) noted that Ortom’s voice on topical issues in Nigeria had attracted international attention.