The Take-It-Back Movement led by human rights activist and presidential candidate of the African Action Congress, Omoyele Sowore, has declared its support for the two-day nationwide protests planned by the Nigerian Labour Congress, NLC, over the ongoing strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). "Take It Back Movement supports the two-day nationwide protest declared by the NLC over the ongoing ASUU strike. We call on students, workers, and particularly all our members nationwide to mobilize and join the action in their respective states. #WeCantContinueLikeThis," the group tweeted on Monday morning.  SaharaReporters earlier reported that the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) declared Tuesday and Wednesday, July 26 and 27 respectively as national days of protest against the ongoing strike action embarked upon by ASUU. The National Secretariat of the NLC disclosed these dates and days in a letter to the chairpersons/secretaries of NLC State Councils dated July 15, 2022, which SaharaReporters sighted on Sunday.  The letter tagged: "National Protest To Get Our Children Back To School," was jointly signed by NLC President and Secretary General, Comrade Ayuba Wabba and Comrade Emmanuel Ugboaja respectively. It partly read: "We bring you fraternal greetings from the national secretariat of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). "In line with the decisions of the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the Nigeria Labour Congress held on the 30th of June 2022, we have scheduled as follows the National Days of Protest to get our children back to school and support our unions in Nigeria's public universities fighting for quality education. "Dates: Tuesday, 26th July 2022 and Wednesday, 27th July 2022. Venue: All the State Capitals of the Federation and Abuja the Federal Capital Territory. "Take off Point: NLC State Secretariats and the Labour House, Abuja. "You are requested to immediately convene the meetings of your SAC to disseminate this information and to fully mobilize workers in the States for this very important protest for good governance." Lecturers in Nigerian federal and state universities have been on strike since February 14, 2022, to force the government to implement agreements reached by both parties in 2009 among other demands. 