As reactions continue to trail the gruesome killing of 14 youths who were attending a wedding in Imo State on Sunday, the International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law (Intersociety), has condemned Governor Hope Uzodinma’s administration, saying over 800 defenceless civilians have been killed in only 20 months. Intersociety said 80 communities were attacked with over 900 homes burnt or destroyed by the Nigerian security agencies.  SaharaReporters had on Monday reported that the 14 deceased were returning from a traditional marriage in Awo-Omamma to their community in Otulu in Oru East Council Area of the state when they were allegedly killed by operatives of the Ebubeagu Security outfit. It reported that the people of Otulu community on Monday protested against the unprovoked massacre of their youths, demanding justice. However, on Tuesday morning, Governor Hope Uzodimma, while briefing journalists in Owerri, the state capital had said the killings were carried out by Nigeria secret police Department of State Services (DSS) while absorbing Ebubeagu of responsibility. The governor also labelled the victims as criminal unknown gunmen. However, Intersociety in statement issued on Tuesday signed by its Board Chair, Emeka Umeagbalasi and other principal officers, faulted the governor's position. In the statement, the rights group disclosed how the Ebubeagu which they described as Nigerian Army allied trained militias carried out the massacre and abducted others during traditional marriage ceremony. Intersociety said, "We strongly condemn the 18th July 2022 massacre of 14 natives and friends of Otulu Community in Oru West Local Government Area of Imo State by Nigerian Army-allied/trained militia Ebubeagu Government Militia, controlled and funded by the Hope Uzodinma-led Government of Imo State. "From preliminary findings obtained by Intersociety, the 14 unarmed and defenceless citizens were shot at close range and massacred in neighbouring Awo-Mama Community in Oru East Local Government Area of the state when they were attending a traditional marriage in Awo-Mama Village, called Okwuoji. "Scores of others were also injured. As if the above dastardly act was not enough, it was further reported that hours later, not less than 20 young men were abducted when the same Army-allied/trained militia invaded a popular Betting Shop in Okwudor Community, Njaba Local Government Area of Imo State. The abducted victims were labeled “Unknown Gunmen”, blindfolded and taken away to unknown destinations till now." It added, "The Awo-Mama massacre of 14 and Okwudor abduction of 20 had taken place less than 24hours after the release of our International Documentary that took place in USA and United Kingdom. "The documentary had found that “in past 20 months - Oct 2020 to June 2022, soldiers of the Nigerian Military and their allied/trained Ebubeagu Government Militia and other security agencies and agents including various police crack squads attacked 150 Communities in Eastern Nigeria. "They killed 1,360 defenceless citizens, burnt or destroyed 1,450 civilian homes, disappeared hundreds without traces, rendered 51,000 homeless and forced them out of their ancestral homes, burnt or destroyed or looted properties worth not less than N57billion and caused the loss of N600billion worth of trade and investments following the Eastern Military siege and atrocities." The group further stated that Imo State people were the biggest causality, adding that between October 2020 and June 2022, over 800 people had been killed in the state.