The Presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), Omoyele Sowore, has said his administration will seek to tackle the insecurity ravaging the country by employing short, medium and long term measures to bring peace. Sowore stated that among the measures would be to “equip ourselves with modern technology that doesn’t require the troops to be on ground.” Omoyele Sowore
BBC The AAC candidate, in an interview on Kaftan TV, queried why there were not drones flying on the crisis ridden areas of this country, adding that the police should also be paid and well-motivated. Sowore said, “You can’t tackle insecurity without first knowing the cause, in tackling insecurity in Nigeria, you must have a short term goal, a middle term goal and a long term goal. The short term goal is to motivate, train and acquire equipment for security services. Let them share intelligence. “The medium term is to start looking at how to equip ourselves with modern technology that doesn’t require the troops to be on ground, I don’t know why we don’t have drones flying all about the crisis ridden areas of this country. We make sure police are well paid and motivated. I can’t imagine people being kidnapped in Abuja and be driven to Delta or Abia State and nobody stops them on the way. “The long term is to solve the economic and social problems that are causes of poverty and inequality that drive people into crime. We have a constitution that addresses the similarities and dissimilarities. Some of our insecurity issues are natural; we need to first of all solve the problem of inequality, hunger, salvation, unemployment and injustice.” Sowore also lambasted the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, for saying Sowore might not see more than 300,000 votes. El-Rufai had said this recently in a Channels TV interview. Reacting, the AAC candidate said, “El-Rufai is a clown, he always mocks everybody. When Buhari didn’t win election, he mocked him, now he is the first person to be on his knees anytime he sees Buhari. “I’m completely happy that the political situation is controlled by some level of political consciousness. That more young people are pushing and saying they would be involved this time around.” The activist also debunked a claim by an activist, Oluwatosin Adeniji, that he pocketed a grant meant for her. Adeniji, a former associate of Sowore and a member of the #RevolutionNow movement had alleged that while she was in police custody in 2020, the activist applied for the grant in her name, without her knowledge. Sowore said, “If you don’t want people to lie or say things about you, don’t live a public life, even in private life, you can get into trouble. It’s a complete lie, it didn’t happen, this was a young lady who was helping me through my detention and will completely be grateful to her where ever she is. “She felt unhappy and decided that the way to go about it was to just make up a story. While in detention, she do bring food to me on daily basis, so if she made a mistake, I don’t think it’s enough to cancel her. That’s why I responded online the way I did. “First, you can’t get a grant in another person’s name, if it’s that easy, people will be collecting grant up and down. Secondly, there is no grant, such didn’t happen, I made it clear to her, even people who give out grants don’t just keep quiet, they are foundations and also accountable to the people who put the money out there. “It’s nothing new to me, when I was contesting in 2019, one lady came out to say I collect pictures and videos of kids being raped from her and I sold it to the Lagos State Government. When she couldn’t sustain it, she moved on. I think it was this year, she came out publicly to say she was working for Tinubu. That’s politics.”