A factional youth group of apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has described the latest threat from one of the terrorist groups operating in the Northern part of the country to abduct President Muhammadu Buhari and governors as worrisome.  It said that if the current security situation is the best Nigerians can get from Buhari, a retired Major General, then the government of the All Progressives Congress (APC) should bury its head in shame.  SaharaReporters earlier reported that the terrorists that attacked an Abuja-Kaduna bound train on March 28, 2022 were seen in a viral video, threatening that unless the government complied with their demands, they would turn the area into an abattoir.  In the video, the terrorists were seen beating their male victims.  “This is our message to the government of Nigeria and just as you have seen these people here, by God’s grace, you will see your leaders; your senators and governors will come before us.  “These ones you are seeing here, we will keep some as our slaves and sell them off just as our Imam told you in the past.  “Just like the Chibok girls that were sold off, we will equally sell these ones as slaves.  “If you don’t adhere to our demands, we will kill the ones we need to kill and sell the remaining. By God’s grace, (Kaduna governor, Nasir) El-Rufai, Buhari, we will bring you here,” one of the terrorists said.  But reacting to the development on Monday in a statement, the National President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, Okwu Nnabuike said the APC-led Nigerian government has failed to provide security for Nigerians and should bury its head in shame.  “How else can we explain the fact that mass abductions go on under this government on a daily basis, yet none of such victims has ever been rescued, except when ransom is paid.  “Not long ago, these daring terrorists attacked the President’s convoy. As if that was not enough, Kuje Prison was breached.  “When we thought we had heard the last, they have now threatened to abduct a sitting President. As usual, this threat will be treated with levity by the government in power."  He alleged that the increasing insecurity across Nigeria has fuelled the suspicion that the President has Fulani agenda in the country.  “This situation intensifies the fear that there could be a grand plan to Islamize this country by simply handing it over to terrorists.  “The time has come for Mr. President to prove otherwise to Nigerians. Security agencies should not be busy pursuing Biafra agitators when the real threats to individual and national security are walking the streets free, receiving chieftaincy titles.  “Security was number one on the APC’s change mantra, but they have failed so low, worse than any previous government in this country.  “It is even more shameful to read a statement from Buhari’s media aide, Garba Shehu, that the President had done all, and even more than what was expected of him as the Commander-in-Chief. “If this is the best we can get from Mr. President, a General, then, the Government should bury its head in shame. This is not a time to play politics,” Nnabuike said. 