 The President of the African Development Bank (ADF), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, has made a case for Nigerians in diaspora to vote in the 2023 general elections to decide the leadership of the country.Adesina, who was Nigeria's Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, made the appeal in his speech at the celebration of Nigeria's diaspora day, delivered virtually.  While eulogising Nigerians in diaspora and their contributions to the development of the country, the AfDB president disclosed that in 2021, Nigerians in diaspora remitted $20billion to the country which represented four times more than the foreign direct investments in the same 2021 and half of the nation's crude oil export.He said, "Today Nigerians in diaspora send home over $20 billion a year as remittances. Now to put this in perspective, you are going to think of the following - Nigeria's foreign direct investment in 2021 was $4.8 billion according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTD). That means remittances by Nigerians in diaspora are four times the total foreign direct investment to Nigeria."Nigeria export revenue from crude oil average is about $40 billion annually. Now that means that remittances by Nigerians in the diaspora are half of the crude oil exports of Nigeria, is like the new oil for Nigeria."Without any doubt, Nigerians in diaspora are Nigeria's second largest source of revenue after crude oil. Nigeria should therefore provide policies that support Nigerians in diaspora regardless of where we live or work; home is home."Nigeria will achieve greatness if the diasporans will play a great part in our country's greatness. That is why it is important for Nigerians in the diaspora to be allowed to participate in the political processes of Nigeria."It is time that Nigerians in the diaspora are allowed to vote other nations do this. America allows its diaspora citizens to vote. Several African countries now allow their diasporan citizens to vote. Nigeria should do the same.”"Then Nigerians at home and Nigerians outside the country, we can share in the shaping the future of their homeland Nigeria. May Nigeria thrives and prosper in peace unity and shared prosperity," he added.