The Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, on Friday, said the defeat suffered by the All Progressives Congress at the July 16 governorship election to the opposition party, People Democratic Party (PDP) was a temporary setback.Oyetola mentioned this at a meeting held at the Osun Government House, Osogbo, and attended by many political appointees and party leaders. Governor Gboyega Oyetola



He noted that his loss was a test from God.The governor urged his party members to return to their various wards and continue regular party activities.He emphasised that the defeat must not distract them from the bigger project ahead.He said, “Rumours have been spreading around that I have run away after the election result was announced. We also heard the PDP saying I am trying to convert government assets to mine. Don’t worry about them; they are simply playing to the gallery.“I summoned all of you here to assure you that the present situation is just a temporary setback. It is a test of our resolve by God and we will continue to stand by him. Ours is God’s project and we shall not despair.“Go back to your various units and wards across the state and continue with regular party activities, hold your meetings regularly. We have bigger projects ahead and we must not allow this temporary setback to distract us.”He further said security operatives had been instructed to maintain law and order, harping on the need to remain peaceful. “Some persons have been going around disrupting peoples’ daily activities. Do not be disturbed. I have instructed security operatives in the state to maintain law and order. We must continue to remain a peaceful state, nobody is allowed to misbehave,” he concluded.SaharaReporters had reported that the Osun State Governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke on Wednesday received his certificate of return from the Independent National Electoral Commission. Adeleke was declared the winner of the Saturday, July 16 poll, garnering 403,371 votes to defeat Governor Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress, who polled 375,027 votes.