A woman who exposed a 38-year-old man identified as Detayo, who repeatedly assaulted a 13-year-old girl at Ilogbo Elegba, along Alaba International Market Road in Lagos State has cried out that she is in hiding to keep safe. She said she has been receiving threats from neighbours and friends of the suspect. SaharaReporters reported how the suspect, Detayo allegedly sexually assaulted the minor repeatedly until his friend who found out and said he wanted to speak to the little girl to stop the act, took her to his room and also sexually assaulted her. On finding out, Detayo reportedly became furious with his friend and also beat up the victim’s mother when she confronted him (Detayo) about the abuse suffered by her daughter. The woman reported the matter to the police who reportedly arrested the suspect.SaharaReporters made several efforts to speak with the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Lagos State Police Command, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, but he neither answered calls made to his official mobile phone number nor replied to the text message sent to him.But the lady who exposed the crime told our reporter that the suspect’s friends had teamed up and secured his release. She added that she has been receiving threats from neighbours and friends of the suspect who blamed her for exposing the crime to the media.“They're blaming me because they were about to sweep the case under the carpet by going to bail the man.“The neighbours kept saying the victim was the one coming to him and I insisted it was rape, they started sending subtle threats. It became more serious after the story went viral. I don't know the name of the person who went to bail him but I can describe where he stays,” the woman said.She added that they made it look like she was a snitch. "Even some people on Twitter are finding ways to blame the victim because she is Igbo, the indigenes are trying to bail the guy and close the case,” she said. The woman said she had to leave the area and go into hiding to ensure her safety. “I just heard the accused has been granted bail,” she said, adding, “I have been getting a series of threats and I don’t think my life is safe now, I had to find a way to leave the place because I don’t want to regret making it (the crime) known, trying to save a victim. I don’t know what to do now but I want to get everybody’s attention and in case anything happens to me, you know what to do.”The lady said she was afraid that something bad could happen to her considering the mysterious way she lost her parents within seven days and her nephew and 37-year-old brother within a few weeks later about five years ago in the same area.“This place is very bad. I lost my mum and dad in 7 days, and my nephew and 37-year-old brother a few weeks later.“My mum was sick briefly. Dad slept and didn't wake up 7 days later. My nephew had a headache and died 4 days later. My brother too said he had a headache on Sunday and died on Thursday,” he said. Unfortunately, at the time of filing this report, efforts to reach the police spokesperson had not been successful.