As outrage continues to trail the killing of 14 Imo wedding guests on Sunday, survivors have narrated how the team leader of Ebubeagu South-East Security Outfit in the state, Ogwu Mozambique and other members of the outfit allegedly killed their relatives. They said that contrary to claims by the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma that those killed were criminals and that the operatives of Nigeria’s secret police, Department of State Services (DSS) carried out the operation. Hope Uzodinma Governor Uzodinma on Tuesday while briefing journalists, absolved Ebubeagu outfit of blame, stating that operatives of DSS traced the victims to their camp and killed them. He also vowed to sustain the killings as no amount of blackmail would deter him. The DSS on its part claimed responsibility, noting that the murdered persons said to be wedding guests were criminals. The Service said they were killed during an exchange of gunfire. But narrating the incident, a survivor, Nnamdi Nnanna, the elder brother of the groom, Chijioke Nnanna, said he only survived the massacre by the mercy of God. He alleged that Ogwu Mozambique, leader of Ebubeagu, shot his brother who was carrying him on a motorcycle and when they fell down, he came to kill him but one of them told him to stop. Nnamdi, who narrated the encounter on Wednesday, noted how Ebubeagu operatives, allegedly shot and killed seven of his kinsmen before him in Awo-Omamma, Oru East Council Area of Imo State. Nnamdi, who works with a borehole drilling company, said he narrowly survived the killing. On how he survived, he said he pleaded with the leader of the Ebubeagu team, whom he identified as Izuchukwu Akuegbulenwa, popularly known as Ogwu Mozambique, who is also not an operative of the DSS as claimed by the Governor. “I called out to him and begged him to spare my life,” he said. Nnamdi, who is a father of two, narrated that on their way home, they travelled on four motorcycles; three were ahead while his own motorcycle was behind, pulling up the rear with three occupants. He said as he saw his kinsmen being gunned down, he shouted and told his rider to go back and they beat a fast retreat, but that was not enough. He said the Ebubeagu operatives gave a chase and, in their haste, their rider hit a bump and one of them fell down. "When the Ebubeagu operatives got to him, one of them shot him in the chest and head." The bridegroom, Chijioke Nnanna, also narrating the incident, said that 14 people who came for his marriage ceremony were massacred. "One of the victims was killed inside my in-law's house," he said, adding that "they even took away vehicles and drinks my friends who came Onitsha brought for me." "They killed a total of 14 of my friends and kinsmen. My wife hasn't returned home because she is afraid," he narrated.