Residents of Otulu community in Oru East Local Government Area of Imo State took to the streets on Monday, protesting the gruesome killing of their youths who were returning from a marriage ceremony in a neighbouring community by alleged Ebube-Agu operatives.SaharaReporters earlier reported that 14 young men who were returning from traditional marriage ceremony were massacred by Ebube-Agu Security outfit of the Imo State on Sunday.  The President General of Otulu community, Nnamdi Agbor, who described the massacre of their children as unacceptable said all the perpetrators must face justice, adding that the victims were on motorcycles going home when “the terrorists called Ebubeagu opened fire on them.”Agbor said that the victims went to Awo-Omamma in the neighbouring Oru West Council Area and were coming back when the incident happened.He said, “Our people were coming back from Awo Omamma around 7pm after a traditional wedding. Ebube-Agu operatives saw them on motorcycles and opened fire on them. As I speak to you, we have recovered seven dead bodies who are our people, five are missing, two are critical injured and hospitalised while the other person who sustained minor injury has been discharged."This is very unfortunate. Our people are angry. They are protesting. There was no cause for the killing. They were just riding home when the Ebubeagu Security outfit opened fire on them. This has never happened before."We have reported the incident to the security agents. The Commissioner of Police and the commander of the 34 artillery Brigade command Obinze have visited. The DPO is also assisting. I have reported the killing to the member representing us at the parliament."The celebrant is Chijioke Nnanna. Those arrested are; Uchenna Orjiribeka, Chido Ekesinachi and Nnamdi Ekesinachi. Those in the hospital are; Oluebube Agbor and Thank God Iheukwumere. Those killed are; Chigozie Obinwa, Ozioma, Chikere Anyadioha, Ifechi Ekesinachi and Emeka Ekesinachi, Aboy Ihegboro and Chijindu. Five persons are still missing."The State Police Public Relations Officer, Micheal Abattam, while confirming the incident, said that investigation had commenced.