The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has warned the former Governor of Kano State and Presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso, to desist from linking the group with the former Governor of Anambra State and Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi. The group maintained that Obi is not its member nor has he ever supported IPOB agitation, warning that Nigerian politicians in general should stay away from linking Obi with the group.  IPOB which gave the warning in a statement signed by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, stated that if Kwankwaso was threatened by Obi's teeming support by Nigerian youths including those in the North, he should settle his differences with Obi and stop linking IPOB to their problem. The statement captioned, ‘Former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso Of Kano State Shamelessly Stop Ranting And Push For Reality’ read, “The global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) under the command and leadership of our great leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU wishes to advise the former Governor, Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwoso, not to involve IPOB in their selection process they call election in Nigeria. “The Nigerian politicians generally and Kwankwaso in particular should desist from linking IPOB with Peter Obi, his political ambition and campaign, Peter Obi is not an IPOB member, never supported our agitation for freedom at any time because he pursues a totally different goal form that of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). We have no interest in the Nigerian morally decadent and fantastically corrupt political system and landscape. “If Kwankwaso is threatened by Labour party & Peter Obi's teeming support by the creative and talented but downtrodden, neglected, deceived, deprived, killed (#Endsars) Nigerian youths from even the North which your generation do not have any good intentions for, then he should go forward and settle his differences and stop linking IPOB to their problem. “IPOB is not interested in the worthless politics you play in Nigeria, we don't regard such daylight robbery, fraud, manipulation and selection as election. “IPOB is not concerned with the waves of this election, we have never asked for nor said anything contrary to our goal and demand, what we need is referendum and referendum we must have. There are no middle ways for us as a people as far as our liberty and freedom is concerned. There is therefore nothing anybody can do to change our resolve towards our stated goal which is the restoration of Biafra. “If there is a region to avoid due to criminality with Terrorism it is the Northern Nigeria which sponsors several terrorist groups as joint venture partners, recycles them in the military and ministries, you should feel non - Northerners pulses when they helplessly tag along with you guys to ascertain the sensitivity of their irritations and pounding of hearts in silent prayers for safety. “IPOB is a disciplined movement and we do not speak from both sides of the mouth. Our singular objective is to extricate our people from the debilitating environment that prevents Biafrans from attaining our fullest potential as human beings, exit from the contraption called Nigeria and be able to determine our fate through putting to use our intrinsic endowments and ingenuity in an enabling environment in a free and Independent Biafran Nation. “Peter Obi is not a member of IPOB and he is neither agitating or in support of our Self Determination struggle. Why associate him with IPOB's struggle for freedom. IPOB does not know who Peter Obi is going by our biodata bank. Our demand is our inalienable rights to self determination and this we seek through a universally recognised and accepted political process called REFERENDUM as stipulated by the United Nations Charter. “IPOB wishes to use this medium and opportunity to warn every politician in Nigeria to desist from linking IPOB with their politics and selection process because we are not politicians and have no common interest. We are freedom fighters.” Recall that Kwankwaso, who has insisted that if the NNPP and Labour Party must merge for the 2023 general elections, Obi must be his running mate, said recently that with the activities of IPOB in the South-East, Obi would not win the presidential seat.