A Federal Capital Territory High Court in Abuja has adjourned the trial of a property developer, Mr Cecil Osakwe, who was charged with alleged N130million fraud by the Nigerian government, to September 19 after he failed to appear before Justice Mohammed Idris. SaharaReporters had on Monday reported that the Federal Ministry of Justice arraigned Osakwe, before a Federal High Court in Abuja over Advanced Fee Fraud, punishable under section 3(1) of the Laws of the Federation 2004. File photo used to illustrate story. According to the charge signed by the Director of Public Prosecution in the Federal Ministry of Justice, Mr. M. B. Abubakar, Osakwe was also accused of criminal intimidation of one Ms Asabe Waziri. Osakwe’s counsel, Orhakioyamhe Emmanuel Esq, claimed on Thursday that his client was not served with the charge. He assured the court that his client would appear before the court on September 19, 2022, to face his trial. The prosecutor, Mr Una Matthew, during the proceedings told the court that Osakwe's counsel undertook to serve the charge on his client. “The police told us that the charge has been served on the accused through his lawyer,” Matthew said; but Orhakioyamhe denied signing any undertaking. After it was established that the accused person was not served with the charge sheet, Justice Idris adjourned the case to September 19 for the arraignment of Osakwe. Justice Idris in a short ruling ordered Osakwe's lawyer to appear before the court to explain his client's absence in court. Part of the charge reads, “That you Cecil Osakwe, male, adult of Abeh Signature Limited, sometimes in 2021 in Abuja, Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court obtained by false pretence and with intent to defraud, the sum of N130,000,000 00 (one hundred and thirty million naira) only being payment for the purchase of a two bedroom flat with a maid’s quarters at Abeh Signature Apartment, located at 1, Mekong Close, Maitama, Abuja from one Ms Asabe Waziri which property you failed to deliver neither did you refund her money. You thereby committed an offence contrary to section 3 (1) and punishable under same section of the Advance Fee Fraud, Cap. Ab, LFN, 2004. “That you, Cecil Osakwe, male, adult of Abeh Signature Limited, sometimes in 2021 in Abuja, Nigeria within the Jurisdiction of this Honourable Court threatened Ms Asabe Waziri with injury to her person and reputation with intent to cause harm and even death in order to cause her to stop requesting legitimatety from you her receipt for payment for the purchase of a unit of two bedroom flat with a Maid’s quarters at Abeh Signature Apartment, 1, Mekong close, Abuja, from you and the deeds of assignment thereof. You thereby committed an offence contrary to section 396 (2) and punishable under section 397(a) of the penal code law (cap 89).”