Nigerian Anti-narcotics Agency, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a man identified as Muyiwa Babalola Bolujoko, a former Lagos BRT driver, for trafficking cocaine. He was on his way to Dubai, United Arab Emirates with 90 pellets of cocaine, the agency said.  Bolujoko was apprehended at the screening point of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) in Lagos, where he was to board a Qatar Airways flight en route from Doha to Sharjah. His trip was expected to terminate in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Femi Babafemi, the spokesperson for the NDLEA, disclosed on Sunday that the 39-year-old man was placed under excretion observation after body scan results confirmed drug ingestion. He said, “While in custody, the suspect excreted all the 90 pellets in four excretions. He claimed he left his N60,000 per month job as a BRT driver in February and decided to work as a drug courier to raise funds to buy a shuttle bus popularly called ‘Korope’ in Lagos to continue his transport business.  Babafemi also disclosed that NDLEA operatives intercepted 22 blocks of heroin weighing 23.55kg concealed in packs of baby food at the MMIA in Ikeja, Lagos. He said the consignment with a street value of over N4.5 billion came from Johannesburg, South Africa on board a South African Airways flight on Wednesday, 29th June as part of a consolidated cargo that arrived at the SAHCO import shed of the Lagos airport. After a series of follow-up operations that led to the arrest of two freight agents, the actual receiver of the drug consignment, Chike Okeke Eweni who distributes the substance for his South Africa-based partner was arrested the following day, Thursday, June 30 at a logistics warehouse in Ajao Estate, Ikeja. Chike said he was into fish farming. SaharaReporters earlier reported that operatives of the NDLEA, arrested a Brazilian returnee, Igwedum Uche at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos with pellets of cocaine concealed in his private parts last week. Igwedum, according to a statement from the NDLEA spokesperson, Babafemi, was arrested on Monday, June 20 as he arrived from Sao Paulo via Ethiopian Airlines. The suspect was said to have swallowed 50 wraps of cocaine before departing Brazil and excreted 48 pellets in Addis Ababa after which he handed them over to another person. He claimed he was unable to excrete the remaining two wraps at the hotel room in Addis Ababa before boarding his flight but later excreted them in the aircraft restroom during the flight from Ethiopia to Lagos   DOCUMENT : Nigerian Anti-narcotics Agency, NDLEA Arrests Former Lagos BRT Driver for Excreting 90 Pellets o... by Sahara Reporters on Scribd 