The factional Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State, ‘Deji Ogunsakin, has petitioned the Inspector General of Police, (IGP) Usman Alkali Baba over alleged criminal intimidation, cyber-bullying and cyber-stalking by Prince Isaac Fayose, the younger brother of former governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Ayodele Fayose. The PDP chieftain made this known in a petition signed by his solicitors; Ademola Adeleye & Associates, which was made available to SaharaReporters. IGP Usman Baba Alkali He pleaded with the Inspector General of Police to investigate Prince Isaac Fayose for allegedly spreading false information through Facebook that he ran away with N35 million election money. Ogunsakin asked the IGP to invite Isaac Fayose for possible interrogation and investigation. "We request that upon the conclusion of your investigation, your good office will find that this petition is meritorious and thus should take all necessary legal actions against Prince Isaac Fayose and charge him to Court for Prosecution in line with the relevant laws and statutes in Nigeria, amongst which should be for offences bothering on cyberbullying and cyber stalking contrary to Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention, etc.) Act 2015." The petition letter reads: "At about 2 pm on 7th July, 2022, our client's attention was drawn to a Facebook Post and Video made on 5th July, 2022 through a Facebook Account with the name: Prince Isaac Fayose wherein the said Prince Isaac Fayose wrote false information, damaging post and blatant lie against the person of our client with the following words: "Do you know that Hon ‘Deji Ogunsakin ran away with #35 million election money on Election Day? PDP Ekiti Chapter majority are hungry and desperate now. Now attached and marked as Annexure 1 is the Screenshot of the Facebook Post of Prince Isaac Fayose.  "Our client refutes in its entirety, the post written by Prince Isaac Fayose against his reputable name as false, malicious, knowingly and intentionally transmitted falsehood to bully, harass, criminally intimidate, annoy, cause danger and inconvenience him and want the Prince Isaac Fayose to proof contrary. "Also attached and uploaded alongside the above-captioned post by the Prince Isaac Fayose on 5th July, 2022 through his Facebook Account is a Video of 1.00minute length wherein the said Prince Isaac Fayose spread more false information and disparaging comments about our client. "As of the time of writing this Petition, the Facebook Post and Video posted by Prince Isaac Fayose on 5th July, 2022 through Prince Fayose's Facebook page against our client has generated 91 Likes, 96 Comments, 26 Shares and 3,000 Views. "Prince Isaac Fayose is aware that our client, being a vibrant young Community leader, Politician and Businessman is having a meteoric rise and that our client commands the goodwill and respect of well-meaning people of Ekiti State and Nigeria and is therefore hellbent and out to tarnish, maliciously harass, lie and intimidate our client and possibly rob our client of the goodwill that our client enjoys from both the old and young people of Ekiti State and other Nigerians. "Some paid agents and followers of Prince Isaac Fayose have reposted the blatant lies and falsehood written by Prince Isaac Fayose on 5th July, 2022 against our client and this has caused irreparable damage to the well-cherished reputation and name of our client. Attached and marked as Annexure 2 is the screenshot of the repost of Prince Isaac Fayose's Facebook Post of 5th July, 2022 by one person named SICO. "To this end, our client being a law-abiding citizen of Nigeria has caused this Petition to be written to your good office so that a response from him to the lies peddled against him by Prince Isaac Fayose will not lead to any breach of law and order." 