The Federal High Court, Abuja, delivered an erroneous ruling in the case of the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, the head of the defence counsels, Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, has said. Ozekhome disclosed this on Thursday according to a statement released during a routine visit to Kanu in the facility of the Department of State Services, Abuja.  In the statement released by Ifeanyi Ejiofor on Friday, the IPOB leader noted that he was committed to ensuring total peace in the South-East region.  Ejiofor said they were aware of the plot by government sponsors and agents to frustrate and work against the efforts to secure the release of IPOB leader, adding that they were not deterred by the development.  While making clarification on the ruling delivered on Tuesday June 28th 2022 by Justice Binta Nyako, the statement said it was never based on a second bail application by Kanu's team of lawyers. Rather, it was a ruling predicated on an application to vacate an earlier 2019 Order made by the same court which had revoked Kanu’s bail, leading to the court issuing a bench warrant for his arrest.  The statement noted that the application which the court ruled upon was filed as far back as April 1, 2019, and not four years after the incident, as the court erroneously held.  The statement read in part, "In line with the Court-Ordered routine visit, we visited our indefatigable Client - Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, at the DSS Headquarters,Abuja, today.  "Today’s visit was eminently led by our legal Iroko, Chief Mike Ozekhome, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu's Lead Defence Counsel. It is to be noted that the defence team, ably led by Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, was not taken aback by the development in court on June 28, 2022, and neither was Onyendu himself taken by surprise. “We are not unaware of the fact that the Executive is desperately frustrating every positive effort being made in Court to bring innocent Nnamdi Kanu out. However, we are not in any way deterred by these state-sponsored tactics from firing on all cylinders, to ensure the unconditional release of Nnamdi Kanu in the shortest possible time.  "We had good quality time with Onyendu, who is unshaken and unfazed by the antics of those determined to dampen his spirit. Rather, he maintains that his primary focus now is to ensure total peace in the entire South-East, while appealing to UmuChineke to be more focused now, more than ever. “In his usual effervescent nature, Onyendu thanked you all, millions of his supporters and UmuChineke, for defying every threat, to throng the Court in solidarity. He also appreciates those who observed quiet moments in prayers and supplication to the Almighty Chukwuokike Abiama throughout that day. He cannot thank you all enough.  "Our erudite Silk and mentor, Ozekhome, SAN, seized the opportunity offered by the visit to issue a much needed clarification on some issues. He accordingly urged all to ignore the false and misleading information passed onto the media about happenings in the court by persons, whose satanic intents and purposes are to dampen the iron-cast spirit of the solid defence team. This will never happen.  "To this end, the Learned Silk hereby, unequivocally makes the following clarifications:  "The Ruling delivered on the 28th day of June, 2022, by the Honourable Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court, Abuja, was never based on any second Bail Application by our team of Lawyers. Rather, it was a ruling predicated on an Application to vacate an earlier 2019 Order made by the same court which had revoked Onyendu’s bail, leading to the court issuing a bench warrant for his arrest.  "The said Application, which the court ruled upon, was filed as far back as 1st of April, 2019, and not four years after the incident, as the court erroneously held.  "These clarifications are compelling in view of the fact that almost all the Social Media platforms and leading television stations acted on the wrong information mischievously dished out by persons who ought to know better and who are supposed to be concerned about Onyendu's immediate release from the DSS.”