Operatives of the Cross River State Police Command on Thursday rescued the kidnapped student of the Arthur Jarvis University and killed some of the suspects. The student was kidnapped on Tuesday when kidnappers operating from Akpabuyo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State invaded the school. The management of the school shut down the institution indefinitely after the incident.  But Vanguard reported that a crack team of policemen carried out a covert operation based on the directives of the Cross River State Commissioner of Police, Aminu Alhassan. It was reported that the covert operation took the tactical unit into the hideout of the kidnappers in Akpabuyo, where the victim was rescued at about 11pm on Thursday, during which some of the suspected abductors were killed and one arrested. The police said the victim has been taken to the hospital for medical attention. The name of the hospital was not disclosed. Confirming the operation, the spokesperson for the state police command, SP Irene Ugbo, described the success of the operation as a laudable breakthrough. The police spokesperson said, “It is true, a crack team of officers combed the creeks of Akpabuyo and rescued the victim at about 11pm Thursday. “It was based on the order of the Commissioner of Police, CP Aminu Alhassan, and we thank God that the student was rescued alive “She is recovering as she is also receiving treatment at the moment.” The police public relations officer however issued a stern warning to kidnappers and hoodlums operating in the state, saying, “This is a serious note of warning that we will not tolerate any form of criminality in any part of the state. “No matter where they hide, we shall always smoke them out, no matter how long it takes. “Every kidnapper or criminal in the state must understand that we are bringing the fight to them. We are not going to allow any person or group to carry out any nefarious activity in any part of Cross River State.” Also while confirming the rescue of the student, Sir Arthur Jarvis Archibong, the founder and Chancellor of Arthur Jarvis University, told Vanguard he was thankful to God for the safe return of the student.He also commended the police for rescuing the kidnapped student.