The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina has knocked Nigerians for criticising the President over insecurity, poor economy and the general failing system in Nigeria.  Adesina, who took to his Facebook page to lambast Nigerians for asking President Buhari to resign after he (Buhari) complained that leading Nigeria is a tough and rough task, said that Nigerians close their eyes and ears to challenges being experienced in other parts of the world including the United State of America and the United Kingdom, while they wail about anything against Buhari.  “Some people would wail about anything and everything in the country, particularly if it comes from President Muhammadu Buhari. Early in the week, that honest and forthright man said it was tough leading the country (is it not?), and he was looking forward to finishing his second term next May 29,” he said. Adesina concurred with his principal, saying that leading Nigeria “At a time of severe socio-economic challenges can only be a yeoman’s job, a burden you would want to be gladly rid of. Rough. Tough,” describing it as not a tea party.  Berating Nigerians, Adesina said, “The wailers have been into different kinds of paroxysms, misinterpreting what the President said, twisting, contorting it, and asking him to resign. They abhor all manner of truth.  “They would have preferred a President working surreptitiously for a third term in office than one deadpan enough to tell them he was leaving at the appointed time.”  He further said, “Yes, we agree that the insecurity is from the bottom of hell, fiendish, Luciferous. But then, it is not peculiar to Nigeria, though it is the duty of government in every country to solve its peculiar challenges.  “And the economic problems? Also global, with countries like America, United Kingdom, and many others recording worst indices in about 40 years. But the wailers close their eyes and ears to things happening in other parts of the world. Buhari, Buhari, Buhari, they continue to chant.”  