The International Press Centre (IPC), a media advocacy group, has called on personnel of the Nigerian security agencies deployed to Osun State for the July 16 governorship election to observe the sanctity of media in the election process. The Centre in a statement signed by its Press Freedom Officer, Melody Lawal, said that in adherence to their constitutional rights, security personnel should accord journalists covering the governorship election their due rights and privileges to enable them carry out their social obligations.  “The security agencies should note that the media is a critical part of the electoral process and should be accorded due rights and privileges to enable them carry out their social obligations as partners seeking to ensure the credibility of the electoral process,” IPC stated. Lawal also urged other electoral stakeholders to undertake their tasks in a very professional manner. The IPC warning was sequel to the rising attacks on journalists by various actors including the security agencies and political actors in the country. Meanwhile, the Centre advised journalists on the governorship election duty to prioritise their safety and adequately integrate safety and security consciousness while performing their professional and constitutional roles. “It is therefore very important for journalists covering the gubernatorial elections to be safety conscious in the discharge of their duties, and to avoid situations that may put them in harm’s way.” IPC noted that the advisory was necessary as many journalists and other media professionals would be on the field for the governorship elections on Saturday, July 16. The Centre noted that as part of initiatives to keep tab on the safety of journalists during the elections, cases of attacks or threats to journalists should be promptly reported. Lawal further enjoined journalists to report any threats or act of violence against them to media professional bodies including the National, Zonal and State Chapters of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and the Nigeria Guild of Editors (NGE).