A transgender prisoner has been moved to men’s prison after impregnating two fellow inmates at the New Jersey’s only female prison in the US. According to Daily Mail, Demi Minor, who is serving a 30-year sentence for stabbing her former foster father to death, was moved from the Edna Mahan Correctional Facility to the Garden State Youth Correctional Facility in June.  Minor, 27, complained that she was misgendered and abused by guards during the transfer and was even placed on suicide watch after she tried to hang herself while she was being transferred to GSCF. In a post on her Justice 4 Demi blog, Minor claimed that she was targeted by correctional officers, with one of them mocking her when she asked to be stripped and searched by a woman. In a separate post, she claimed she was beaten during the transfer. She said she was briefly held at New Jersey State Prison, where guards allegedly called her 'a he' over 30 times. Minor's case gained notoriety in April when the New Jersey Department of Corrections revealed that he had impregnated two fellow inmates at the Edna Mahan Correctional Facility. The inmate also said that while she was allowed to keep her make-up, she knows wearing it 'is a death wish.' 'I have accepted that I am in a male facility but I have not accepted nor will I ever agree to or accept that I am anything other than a woman who happens to be transgender,' Minor wrote.  In a scathing blog post, Minor accused guards of mistreating her and threatening her.  On one occasion, one guard told her 'I don't give a f*** what you do ….there is no camera here ... everyone here is man including you,' Minor alleged.  Minor was briefly in the custody of the New Jersey State Prison, where she said other concerning incidents took place.  '[The department of corrections] has violated my right to be safe and free from sexual harassment, by putting me in one of the most violent youth correctional facilities,' Minor wrote.  'While living here at GYSC, I have found myself under attack by young inmates who are immature and just plain ignorant towards a person like me.'  Minor said she has been removed from Edna Mahan 'as a punishment for what occurred over two months ago.  'They have violated my right to be safe and free from sexual harassment, by putting me in one of the most violent youth correctional facilities,' she alleged.'  The trans inmate said she was also being attacked by 'ignorant' younger inmates,  She said: 'On Saturday, I was in medication line when a inmate cut in front of me, and said ''I am not standing behind no fag'.' The inmate th[e]n spit directly in my direction.' She accused the DOC of causing her irreparable psychological damage by exposing her to those triggering situations.  'I don't know what its like to live as a man, and I refuse to ever revert back to such habits or behavior,' Minor wrote.  Minor also complained that the facility has no air conditioning or cable and does not allow video visits or LGBTQ groups. ' ... yet they said that I am here for safety no please understand that I am here for punishment, just the sad part is this punishment may kill me,' Minor complained. 'Mentally I have not been myself and I am losing my essence. The Demi, who wants to wear make-up and hang out with her friends is not permitted here. Minor was removed from Edna Mahan after it emerged that she had impregnated two inmates. The 800-inmate Mahan facility began housing transgender women – including those that have yet to undergo gender reassignment surgery – last year after a lawsuit brought by an inmate and the ACLU. It now has 27 trans prisoners. A source familiar with the prison told Daily Mail cell doors are left open during recreation time, so inmates can theoretically use those periods to sneak into each other’s cells or slip into a bathroom for quickie sex. Minor was just 16 when she broke into Theotis Butts's home in Gloucester Township, New Jersey. Butts had taken her in as a foster child, but Minor was no longer living with him, according to a report at the time on NJ.com. She stabbed Butts, 69, several times and then fled to New York where she was arrested. She was also convicted of carjacking. She approached a couple – whose infant son was in their Pontiac Grand Prix at the time – and pointed a Glock .45 in the woman's face. The couple got their baby out of the car before Minor sped away with it. Minor started to transition into a woman in 2020 and was transferred out of the male prison system to Mahan. Since being incarcerated, Minor has tried to turn her life around, becoming something of a jailhouse lawyer advocating for other prisoners, and representing her unit on the inmate liaison committee. 