Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has slammed the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress government over the increasing insecurity situation saying the recent terrorists’ threat to kidnap the president shows there's no government in the country. Ortom stated this while reacting to a video trending on social media where bandits were flogging Kaduna-bound train attack victims and their threat to kidnap the president and the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai.  Briefing journalists on Monday with regards to the trending event around the country at the Government House, Ortom said Buhari government had left Nigerians digging their graves. “Things are getting worse in Nigeria," he said. "You know I said this before I travelled out that very soon, with the manner bandits are operating without proactive steps from the federal government, they will soon enter the Aso Rock. “You have seen happenings in the country; the Kuje prison break and the threat to kidnap the president, God forbid, but this is what I saw long time ago." The governor alleged that the criminals that wreaking havoc in Afghanistan were Fulani who had been brought to terrorise Nigerians like they ruined Afghans. “Those people in Afghanistan, who are bandits and Fulani, are the ones (wreaking havoc). They are being sponsored. I feel pains that this is happening in my generation. There is no government in Nigeria today. Those who are surrounding the president are criminals. “Mr president, if you are listening to me, I want to say that you are not doing well, you have violated the oath of office you took, Nigerians are in pains, they are suffering, the socio-economic lives of the people have gone down the abyss. “You have left us digging out graves, we need a true change, not the change from top to bottom you promised us in 2015.” The governor who explained the reasons he visited United Kingdom and United States of America during his two-week vacation said it was to correct all the wrong narratives of federal government. “I decided to visit the United Kingdom and United States of America to correct the wrong narratives that the crisis in Benue State was caused by climate change and they were suprised to learn that the attacks were beyond what they had been fed with. “Even during the raining season, the Fulani herders come to our communities killed, maimed, raped our women even our men. These Fulanis come from Niger, Senegal, Mauritania and other places. They only used that as shield their main reason for attacks was occupation of our lands.”