Bolt, the ride-hailing company in over 400 cities across more than 45 countries, has opted for Kenya to house its African regional office, shunning Nigeria, the most populous black nation in the world that used to be called the ‘Giant of Africa’. Bolt’s regional spokesperson for Africa, Nthabiseng Mokoena, in a statement reported by Peoples Gazette on Tuesday, said the Kenyan office will serve as the company’s regional nerve centre.  Ms Mokoena in the statement disclosed that the office, located in Riverside Drive, Nairobi, Kenya, will host Bolt’s top-brass leadership overseeing operations across Africa. Bolt says the Nairobi office will provide an opportunity for it to run its operations in a more integrated and cohesive manner across the African region. Currently, Bolt runs its African operations across seven countries including Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Tunisia, South Africa and Ghana. The Estonian mobility company, headquartered in Tallinn, offers vehicle for hire, micromobility, car-sharing, and food delivery services. Speaking during the launch, Bolt Regional Director and Interim VP for Rides, Paddy Partridge, said the development will further boost Bolt’s presence in Africa.“This investment is strategic for us as it will enable us to run and coordinate operations seamlessly across Africa in an integrated manner. “It also provides us access to the great COMESA regional markets which we are keen to expand to,” Mr Partridge said, adding that Kenya acts as a great gateway into Africa. With the announcement, Bolt joins a list of multinationals that have shunned Nigeria to site their African headquarters or regional office in other countries despite the human resources the most populous African country boasts of. For instance, communications giant, Twitter, in April 2021 opened its Africa Operation Headquarters in Ghana, shunning Nigeria, despite over 2.5 million users – which is about the third-largest in the continent after Egypt and South Africa.



See Also






Sahara Reporters
Free Speech: Twitter Shuns Nigeria, Chooses Ghana As Africa Operations Headquarters
0 Comments
1 Year Ago The then-Twitter Chief Executive Officer and Co-founder, Jack Dorsey, had said, “Twitter is now present on the continent. Thank you Ghana, and Nana Akufo Addo.” Less than two months later, President Muhammadu Buhari’s government banned the operations of the microblogging giant in the country, describing it as a threat to its corporate existence. Google also chose Accra, Ghana as the location for its very first Artificial Intelligence research laboratory in Africa. A 2021 report by RMB, a division of FirstRand Bank Limited, titled, ‘Where to Invest in Africa 2021’ shows Nigeria dropped from Africa’s top 10 investment destinations to 14 while Egypt retained the number one position. The ranking is based on operating environments in the countries evaluated.