The Oyo State House of Assembly has finally impeached the state deputy governor, Mr Rauf Olaniyan over allegations of gross misconduct and abuse of power. Olaniyan’s impeachment followed the state Assembly’s adoption of the report of the seven-man panel constituted by the chief judge to investigate allegations of gross misconduct against the deputy governor at its plenary on Monday. Oyo State Deputy Governor, Engineer Rauf Olaniyan SaharaReporters had reported that Oyo State Chief Justice, Munta Abimbola, on Thursday constituted a seven-man panel to investigate the allegations levelled against the deputy governor of the state, Olaniyan, by the House of Assembly. The House of Assembly had been pushing to impeach Olaniyan, a move that was intensified after the deputy governor defected from the Peoples Democratic Party to the All Progressives Congress.  The state governor, Seyi Makinde and the majority of the state lawmakers are in the PDP.  Olaniyan’s camp had alleged that Makinde sidelined and relegated him to the background of his government before his defection. However, the panel was formed pursuant to the resolution of the House of Assembly, and as requested by its Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin. Ogundoyin made the request in a letter dated July 6, 2022. The Speaker in the letter requested the constitution of the panel by virtue of the power conferred on the State Chief Judge by section 188 (5) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The members of the panel comprise Chief Kayode Christopher (Chairman); Adebisi Soyombo; Chief Lawal Adekunle Dauda; Princess Olanike Olusegun; Rev Fr. Patrick Ademola; Chief Mrs Wuraola Adepoju (JP); and Alh. Tirimisiyu Akewusola Badmus.  Olaniyan was elected in 2019 on a joint ticket with the current Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) until his recent defection to the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state.   As read by the majority leader of the Assembly, Honourable Sanjo Adedoyin, the deputy governor was found culpable, indicted of all allegations, and all complaints levelled against him.   The Assembly approved Olaniyan’s removal from office leaning on section 188(9) of the Nigerian Constitution 1999 (as amended).