A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Prince Tonye Wilson has become the latest chieftain to dump the party over its Muslim -Muslim presidential ticket, SaharaReporters has learnt. This comes after two prominent figures in the party, Dr Dawari George and Ibim Semintinari, a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), resigned their membership of the party over a similar protest.  The trio are all close allies of former transportation minister, Rotimi Amaechi, and are key figures of the party in the state. Announcing his exit from the party on Tuesday, Tonye in a letter addressed to the APC Chairman, Ward 3, Buguma City, Asari Toru Local Government Area, hinged his decision to quit on the party’s Muslim-Muslim ticket after a former Governor of Borno, Kashim Shettima emerged as the running mate of Bola Tinubu, its presidential candidate for 2023 election. "I can't argue for equity in my state and defend inequity in my country. "While I appreciate my leader Rt Hon Rotimi Amaechi and all his efforts, I cannot defend the decision of my party in fielding a Muslim-Muslim ticket, especially at a time like this, against all protests from well-meaning Nigerians across religious and political divides. "It sets a very wrong precedent, it is totally insensitive and even if you win, will prove bad for good governance. "Under these dire circumstances, I find no justification to still remain, in good conscience, a member of a political party that subordinates electoral victory over the safety of lives and the peace of mind of its citizens. "Buhari resisted the same temptation and chose a little-known (Yemi) Osinbajo and won. "By doing this, Tinubu is saying that a Northern Christian has no electoral value. My staying means I agree. "I wish you well. And I remain grateful to our Leader, but l cannot defend the indefensible,” he said. Tinubu handpicked Shettima, a fellow Muslim and a former Governor of Borno State to be his running mate amidst public outcry and condemnation.