The Nigerian government has replaced Mr. Chukwuyere N. Anamekwe as the acting Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), The Nation reports.  He was said to have been replaced two weeks ago with AGF Mr. Okolieaboh Ezeoke Sylvis, a former TSA (Treasury Single Account) Director.  Anamekwe’s replacement followed allegations that he was being investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).  SaharaReporters learnt the replaced AGF had corruption allegations against him including alleged overpayment to himself in previous government agencies he served.  It was further alleged that some of the properties he acquired fraudulently had been recovered by the anti-corruption agencies.  One of his financial crimes was allegedly committed while he was the Director of Finance and Accounts (DFA) at the Ministry of Defence.  He was also allegedly involved in other fraudulent activities and used the Government Integrated Financial Management System (GIFMIS) to steal the salaries of federal government staff.  The GIFMIS is an IT-based system for budget management and accounting. It was adopted as part of a wider Public Service Reform Strategy by the federal government of Nigeria starting in the early 2000s.  It was also learnt that the government was not comfortable with his revelation that it was borrowing to pay salaries.  Anamekwe was appointed acting AGF on May 22. He made the controversial remark on government borrowing to pay salaries on June 14. He was replaced seven days after.  His replacement, Sylvis retired from office in the first quarter of 2023.  The Nation reported further that the Nigerian government has initiated a search for a new AGF.  The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HoCSF), Mrs. Folasade Yemi-Esan has issued a circular to that effect.  In a memo titled: “Commencement of the process of appointment of a substantive Accountant-General of the Federation”, the HoCSF directed permanent secretaries to forward details of eligible directors on Grade 17 to her on or before 4:00 pm on Wednesday, July 6, 2022.  The memo stated the qualification of level 17 officers qualified for the position.  There are, “Those who have attained the position of Substantive Director (Grade 17) on or before January 1, 2020 and are not retiring from the service earlier than December 31, 2024 are eligible to participate in the selection process while officers undergoing disciplinary proceedings are excluded.” 