  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was on Thursday served with the court judgement sacking the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori as the Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship candidate for the 2023 general elections.  Justice Taiwo O. Taiwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja sacked Oborevwori, who is Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s stooge on account of supplying false and forged documents to INEC in aid of his qualification for the governorship election.  The judge subsequently directed the electoral commission and the PDP to recognise the plaintiff as the candidate of the PDP in the 2023 governorship election in Delta State.  Olorogun David Edevbie, a former Commissioner of Finance under former Governor James Ibori, who came second in the primary had contended Oborevwori’s participation in the primary on the grounds of alleged discrepancies in his academic qualifications as well as his age.  He specifically urged the court to bar the PDP from submitting the Assembly Speaker’s name as the candidate of the party. Meanwhile, Oborevwori has appealed the judgement.  The suit numbered FHC/ABJ/CS/795/2022 is between David Edevbie as the Plaintiff and Oborevwori Sherrif Francis Orohwedor, Peoples Democratic Party and Independent National Electoral Commission as the first, second and third defendants. The order of Justice Taiwo read in part, “That the 1st Defendant is not qualified to participate and/or be declared the winner of the 2nd Defendant’s Delta State Governorship Primary elections which held on 25th May, 2022 for the purpose of electing its candidate or flag bearer in the forthcoming 2023 Gubernatorial Elections in Delta State, scheduled to hold on 11th March, 2023 by the 3rd Defendant.  “That having supplied false information and submitted dubious or forged credentials/certificates in order to participate in and be declared the winner of the 2nd Defendant’s Delta State Governorship Primary elections which held on 25th May, 2022, the 2nd Defendant herein is legally precluded from submitting, forwarding or otherwise transmitting the name of the 1st Defendant to the 3rd Defendant as the candidate or flag bearer of the 2nd Defendant in the forthcoming Governorship elections in Delta State, now scheduled to hold on 11th March, by the 3rd Defendant. “That the Plaintiff who, next to the ineligible and unqualified 1st Defendant, scored the highest number of valid votes cast at the Delta State Governorship Primary elections of the 2nd Defendant which held on 25th May, 2022, ought to and should be returned and declared the winner of the 2nd Defendant’s Governorship Primaries and accordingly, returned as the candidate of the 1st Defendant for the forthcoming Governorship elections in Delta State scheduled to hold on 11th March, 2023 by the 3rd Defendant.”  In the judgement, the court also said, ‘that the 1st Defendant should and ought to be prohibited, inhibited, prevented or otherwise restrained from holding out, parading and/or advertising himself as the candidate of the 2nd Defendant for the forthcoming Gubernatorial elections in Delta State scheduled to hold on 11th March, 2023 by the 3rd Defendant”. 