The Plateau State Police Command says soldiers and police personnel has been deployed to some communities and villages in the Wase Local Government Area of Plateau State following the alleged issuance of a 7-day quit notice to residents by terrorists. The Plateau State Police Public Relations Officer, Alfred Alabo, on Monday denied reports that a quit notice had been issued to the communities. He, however, said security personnel had been deployed to the areas all the same.  According to him, when the command heard the rumours of the said quit notice, soldiers and policemen were deployed to those communities and villages. Alabo also denied reports that residents of the communities had deserted their homes following the quit notice by Islamic terrorists. The affected communities were identified as Sabon Zama, Gindin Dutse, Anguwan Tsohon Soldier, Anguwan Yuhana and Anguwan Mangu. It was reported that Islamic terrorists masquerading as bandits asked residents to leave or expected to be visited with violence. It was also reported that residents of the affected communities had deserted the areas following the expiration of the ultimatum which was issued on June 28, 2022.  Ubale Pinau, a resident of Pinau community that shares a border with the affected communities had told Daily Trust that all the villages listed by the bandits had been deserted.  “There is no single person now in the communities. Everyone has fled. Some of the residents of the affected communities are now in Pinau while some have moved to Wase town.  “People are afraid of staying in the communities to avoid the anger of the bandits. Although there are soldiers stationed in Pinau, residents are jittery for fear of the unknown,” he had said.  However, Alabo, on Monday said that it wasn't true.  He said that when the command heard the rumours of the said quit notice, soldiers and policemen were deployed to those communities and villages, adding that those security agents were still there. He said, "At Pinau and Anguwan, all these areas; there are soldiers stationed there, policemen are there, I don't know why some people are trying to destroy the peace of the Plateau.  "Soldiers are in the villages and he is saying that people are running away from the villages. The local government chairman, the Divisional Police Officer, everybody, they are working on it very seriously that is why there is no cause for alarm.  "The man is just raising an unnecessary alarm because soldiers and policemen are there. We have heard the rumour, we didn't even get it officially, just heard it as a rumour and we took action. The security agencies have taken action and he's still complaining." 