The presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) and convener of #RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, has again come hard on former Nigerian Vice President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar. Atiku had during an interview on Arise TV on Friday, claimed Sowore doesn’t know anything about the country, alleging that he stays abroad and comes to Nigeria every four years to run for elective post.  Responding via a post on his Twitter account, the activist fired back at the PDP presidential candidate who would be contesting for President for the sixth time, saying he has lived in about five countries outside of Nigeria since 1999. Atiku contested against Chief MKO Abiola in 1993 on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). He contested again in 2007 on the platform of the defunct Action Congress (AC). He contested under PDP in 2011, on the platform of APC in 2015, and under PDP in 2019. “Dear @atiku, I watched a clip of your @ARISEtv interview this morning wherein you were asked about my view on power scam under your regime, you failed to address how $16b was used to procure darkness instead you claimed “he doesn’t even know,” well these are some things I know you ran for office for the first time in 1992 as a presidential aspirant of the SDP, I also ran for the post of the SU President of the UNILAG, you lost, I won. You left, I stayed, to deliver democracy to Nigerians. “I then left for the US in 1999 at the age of 28. You went on to become the VP of Nigeria, you left Nigerians in darkness after spending $16billion on power, I stayed with Nigerians, shining light on the mess you and your boss created in that sector. You left, I stayed! “After your failed plan to succeed your boss (Olusegun Obasanjo) who wanted a third term in office, I stayed to botch his third term bid. You, however, joined another political party and tried your luck, you left after you couldn’t win. You left, I stayed. “Since 1999, you have lived in about 5 countries outside of Nigeria. I know this because your IP keeps changing the same way you kept changing political parties.“We both contested in 2019, it was my 1st time contesting, but after the elections, you left, I stayed. I’m still here! “You’ve done your rounds from SDP- UNCP- PDP- ACN-PDP- APC back to PDP, you have never done anything for the Nigerian people, you’ve only taken care of your needs and those that benefit your family, cronies, and friends. It is time to quit and let Nigeria experience electricity! “My question again, is this; what happened to the $16billion dollars released for electricity during your tenure as Vice President? ‪#WeCantContinueLikeThis.”Sowore earlier berated Atiku over his reaction to the National Grid collapse. Atiku on Wednesday after it was announced that the National Grid collapsed for the 6th time posted on his verified Twitter page, his displeasure over the repeated collapse of the grid that has continued to throw Nigerians into darkness. Among other things he said on the thread, Atiku had noted, “I am reliably informed that there was a total National Grid Collapse at precisely 12:23pm today. This is one collapse too many. It is the 6th time this is happening this year alone.” Reacting to Atiku’s tweet, Sowore had said, “The National Electrical grid collapse started when you and Obasanjo invested $16 billion to procure darkness for Nigeria, the @MBuhari regime came to gazette grid collapse as a law. “Alhaji @atiku, don't pretend that you care about the National Grid!”