Residents of Onitsha North Local Government Area of Anambra State have alleged that officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) stopped the ongoing Continuous Voters Registration exercise in the area.In a 29 seconds video made at the registration centre by one of the registrants, they alleged that INEC officials in the area demanded that every registrant must pay the sum of N20,000 before he/she could be registered. The complainant, who spoke in Igbo Language in the video obtained by SaharaReporters, said “We are currently at the local government. Look at these people taking the machines used for voter’s card registration inside and they have refused to register us. They said that we must pay them in Onitsha North Local Government.“Look at the crowd of people here who are angry about it. Whoever refuses to pay money, they refuse to register the person. Look at all of here but they asked to leave and they are taking the machines that they had brought outside here back inside the office. See them. This is Onitsha North.”Another young man in the video specifically said, “They said we must pay N20,000 each person” to which the person making the video quickly said, “Did you hear it?”But when SaharaReporters contacted the INEC Public Relations Officer in the state, Reginald Onyeukwu, she described the video as a planned crew and unreal.Onyeukwu said, “That type of thing, we don’t hold it so serious. Those people involved there like the reporter (the person who reported the issue) supposed to grab somebody, one person, get the name of the person, that person’s details and forward it to us, so the management will invite that person and discipline that person.“Now, they generalized the issue to all the staff in Onitsha North. How can we accuse and punish all the staff? If you are doing so, you will punish an innocent person.“Somebody Ikenna called me and I told him to go back there and get somebody’s details and forward it to me or to the management so that they will look into it.“Don’t say staff in Onitsha North did this or that, be specific, know the person. That video can be formulated. It can be a planned crew, like, “if I video you, say that these people said we should pay N20,000.”Onyeukwu questioned how a staff could ask people to pay N20,000 before they could be registered, saying that N20,000 was not N1.“That thing is a planned crew. That is why I don’t want to make any comment on it. How can you tell somebody, mainly a student, 20% of the people registering there are students and you tell a student to bring N20,000 for you to register him, is it possible?“That video is a planned crew. If I will make comment on that, I will say it is a planned deal, it is not real.”