The senator representing Borno South in the National Assembly and Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Ali Ndume has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to address the Nigerians directly instead of issuing statements through his aides. The senator during an interview on Channels TV on Thursday night, monitored by SaharaReporters, said the Buhari-led government should take responsibility for the terrorist attacks in the country as God will hold him accountable. Ali Ndume On Tuesday, an advance team in the President’s convoy was attacked by terrorists in Katsina State. On the same night, terrorists attacked Kuje Correctional Centre, killing some of the inmates and an officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The armed assailants also freed hundreds of inmates including Boko Haram terrorists held at the prison facility. The Islamic State-backed faction of Boko Haram, known as the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) has claimed responsibility for Tuesday's attack on the prison facility. ISWAP in a video released on Wednesday claimed responsibility for the attack. In the video, the terrorist sect showed some of its men shooting their way into the facility. Recently, there have been terrorist attacks on hard targets including March 28 attack on a Kaduna-bound train in which no fewer than eight people were killed and several others injured. Many passengers were also abducted by the terrorists, with some of their victims still held in captivity three months after the incident. Ndume said, “The president is supposed to or whoever is responsible should sit some people down and get results, not just making statements. “When it comes to issues like this, it is the President himself that’s supposed to be talking to Nigerians, not some advisers. “The President of course and all of us, religiously by the time you take responsibility or you ask people to elect you as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, anything that happens to any Nigerian, God will hold you accountable for it, the President knows that.” Ndume said he was disappointed with the response of some leaders who failed to see the terrorist attack on Kuje prison as their responsibility.  “I’m really disappointed with the response of our leaders and it’s our responsibility. The responsibility of government is the security and welfare of its citizens and then you have leaders responding as if it’s a casualty, it’s not their responsibility. “It’s our responsibility, I feel pained to be called a senator and I’m almost like helpless and many of us are like that sitting down as observers,” he said. According to Ndume, the government is not doing enough on the issue of security as the police force is almost non-existent. “We are not doing much or we are not concentrating or we are not prioritising the key issue of security in the government properly. Nigeria with 200 million people, we have less than 400,000 police (personnel) and you have all the security agents put together at that, their number is not up to 1 million, go and check it. How can you police a country of 200 million with this?” he asked. “People come from wherever, up to now two days nothing, no trace, no information, no situation room, nothing, the people that were abducted on the train attack, no information, nothing. “I’m part of the government, I take responsibility. I’m just saying people are not responsible for what they are supposed to be,” he added. 