The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has threatened to sue the Nigerian Government if it stops the planned nationwide protest of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) over the ongoing strike by lecturers in the public universities.  The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) on February 24, embarked on one-month strike action but the union later announced that it would be going on an indefinite strike after the government failed to meet its demands.  The lecturers’ union is asking the Nigerian government to implement the 2009 ASUU/FG agreement which borders on funding of university education and other demands that President Muhammadu Buhari's government has failed to implement.  Since the strike which is in its fifth month started, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) and several other groups have protested against the attitude of the government to the industrial action, calling on it to resolve the pending issues with the lecturers’ union.  The government has since said it lacks the financial resources to adequately fund university education in Nigeria. A few weeks ago, President Buhari urged ASUU to consider the long-term effect of the strike on students and the generational consequences on families, the educational system and the future development of the country.  While lamenting that the strike was already taking a toll on the psychology of parents, students and other stakeholders, the President said, “We hope that ASUU will sympathise with the people on the prolonged strike. Truly, enough is enough for keeping students at home. Don’t hurt the next generation for goodness sake."  However, following the inability of the government to resolve the issues, Nigeria Labour Congress declared Tuesday and Wednesday, July 26 and 27 respectively as days for nationwide protests to force the government to resolve the issues. Meanwhile, the police have threatened to stop the strike if NLC does not obtain permits from state police commands.  However, SERAP has responded that protest is a fundamental right of citizens.  It announced on its official Twitter handle @SERAPNigeria that it would challenge the government in court if it stopped the protest.  It tweeted: "The Buhari administration should allow the Nigeria Labour Congress to go ahead with its protest over the prolonged strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities.  "Protest is a fundamental right. We'll see in court if the administration attempts to stop the protest." 