A faction of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), has called on 'Biafrans' to ignore and reject any call by any individual or group of persons to engage them in any form of street protests anywhere in the South-East against the recent killing of 14 youths in Imo State. A statement by the spokesperson for Autopilot-IPOB, Simon Ekpa, said the group has taken necessary steps to track down each member of Ebubeagu security outfit in the South East and those who allegedly participated in the gruesome murder of unarmed youths in Imo State and other parts of Biafra land.  SaharaReporters earlier reported that gunmen suspected to be members of the South-East Ebubeagu security outfit on July 17, 2022, massacred no fewer than 14 youths who went for the traditional marriage of their kinsmen at Awomama in the Oru East Council Area of Imo. Outrage and condemnation subsequently trailed the killing from various quarters, including from the Catholic church and Amnesty International. There was also a call for protests across the South-East against the killing. But Autopilot-IPOB, in a statement tagged "Disclaimer," warned that it had not approved any street protests in any part of the South-East, adding people would be notified if there would be a need for such. It warned that nobody should be deceived to fall into the trap of the detractors and enemies of ‘’Biafra by engaging in any street protest yet, as "you will be endangering your life because that is what they plan to do." The statement read in part: "Our attention has been drawn from the land of BIAFRA where urgent meetings were held in some IPOB units and zones across the Biafraland, for the very first time since after over a year now that our Supreme Leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has cancelled every kind of IPOB meetings and street protests in Biafraland, before his abduction and extraordinary rendition to Nigeria. "These meetings were called by some people who see themselves as demigods in IPOB. These set of little tyrants are always hell-bent on making sure that they sabotage the collective interests of the Biafran people and every single effort that we are making, to make sure that Biafra is restored in a very short period of time and for lasting peace restored in our land. "They have initiated new plans, trying to lure and mobilize Biafrans, especially in Imo State, through calls and text messages, to Ikonso's House, in the guise of staging a protest on the issue of the 14 Biafrans, slain in cold blood by the State-sponsored terrorist group called Ebubeagu, when they attended their friends’ wedding ceremony. "We call on all Biafrans to ignore and reject any call by any individual or group of persons trying to engage them in any form of street protests anywhere in Biafraland, at least for now. "We have been informed that as a result of this instigation, another Biafran was murdered by the same Ebubeagu yesterday being 24th July 2022 being Sunday. "IPOB under the leadership of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu/ Biafrans has not initiated or approved any form of street protests anywhere in Biafraland; hence, no one has been mandated or instructed to mobilize any Biafran for any such protest. "Do not fall for the trap of the detractors and enemies of Biafra to engage in any street protest yet; you will be endangering your life because that is what they plan to do. When the time for street protest comes, you will be notified through various channels and we will put all mechanisms in place to defend and protect protesters." It added, "The lockdown of Friday, 22nd of July 2022, which was successfully observed all over Biafranland is clear evidence of our collective resolve. IPOB does not intend to endanger the lives of any Biafran or put anyone in harm’s way. "Actions are being taken to hunt every Ebubeagu terrorist Personnel anywhere in Biafraland; we employ every Biafran to stay calm, smart and observant as those whose responsibility it is to do the needful are on the job. Therefore, do not endanger your life by getting involved in any street protest in the name of Biafra, at least for now. They have planned to set you up. "Further instructions that will be given will come from the Spokesperson for Biafra, through all our avenues for disseminating information. "Whatever information you don't get from any of our approved platforms (Enter Biafra, Voice of Biafra and all recognized Autopiloted-IPOB Media Platforms) should not be followed until Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is released unconditionally from his illegal detention. "We are in a very critical stage in our march to freedom. Be careful and watchful, so that you don't become a victim of circumstance. "May ChiukwuOkike Abiama bless you all as we are matching into our promised land in 2023 and nobody can stop it. The sun has risen and it must shine boldly next year, 2023."