The Federal Ministry of Justice has dragged a property developer, Mr. Cecil Osakwe, before a Federal High Court in Abuja over alleged N130million fraud. The developer will be arraigned before Justice M.S. Idris of the court on July 5.  The court processes with charge number CR/244/2022, and filed on June 14, 2022, indicated that Osakwe was accused of Advanced Fee Fraud, punishable under section 3(1) of the Laws of the Federation 2004. According to the charge signed by the Director of Public Prosecution in the Federal Ministry of Justice, Mr. M. B. Abubakar, Osakwe was also accused of criminal intimidation of one Ms Asabe Waziri. Part of the charge reads, “That you Cecil Osakwe, male, adult of Abeh Signature Limited, sometimes in 2021 in Abuja, Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court obtained by false pretence and with intent to defraud, the sum of N130,000,000 00 (one hundred and thirty million naira) only being payment for the purchase of a two bedroom flat with a maid’s quarters at Abeh Signature Apartment, located at 1, Mekong Close, Maitama, Abuja from one Ms Asabe Waziri which property you failed to deliver neither did you refund her money. You thereby committed an offence contrary to section 3 (1) and punishable under same section of the Advance Fee Fraud, Cap. Ab, LFN, 2004. “That you, Cecil Osakwe, male, adult of Abeh Signature Limited, sometimes in 2021 in Abuja, Nigeria within the Jurisdiction of this Honourable Court threatened Ms Asabe Waziri with injury to her person and reputation with intent to cause harm and even death in order to cause her to stop requesting legitimatety from you her receipt for payment for the purchase of a unit of two bedroom flat with a Maid’s quarters at Abeh Signature Apartment, 1, Mekong close, Abuja, from you and the deeds of assignment thereof. You thereby committed an offence contrary to section 396 (2) and punishable under section 397(a) of the penal code law (cap 89).” Meanwhile, the Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria, (REDAN), in a letter signed by the Executive Secretary, Yunusa Shuaibu, denied that Osakwe was a member of the association. “The Association is bounded by strict rules and conduct such that clients are treated with utmost regard; complaints are not taken lightly. Hence, some developers who do not want to be regulated, shy away from joining the association for reasons best known to them," the association said.