The General Overseer, Salvation Ministries, Pastor David Ibiyeomie has again threatened to kill anyone who insults Bishop David Oyedepo, the presiding Bishop of the Faith Tabernacle in Ota, otherwise called Winners’ Chapel International. The cleric said people can insult him or his wife, but warned that nobody should dare insult his father. Stressing that if Bishop Oyedepo was not alive his Christianity would have been nonsense.  Ibiyeomie told a story of how a man attempted to hurl insults at Oyedepo in his office and he had to shut him out for four years, PM News reports. He made this known in his Sunday sermon at the Church headquarters in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He said, “I can tell you something: there are people you insult, I won’t forgive you. In human life, the first person you will insult that I won’t forgive you is Oyedepo. “Insult me, insult my wife, I don’t care but if you take your mouth to touch my wife, you are touching me. If you insult Oyedepo I will kill you, that’s how God is. You know why? If Bishop Oyedepo was not alive, my Christianity would have been nonsense. “He made me love Christianity. Can you be alive and somebody is insulting your father? I will slap you; you are not born. Don’t you see how I tore that beast to pieces? I will tear you to pieces. I will fight you spiritually, fight you everywhere, fight you law court, till they send you to jail. “When people fight you, fight them till they go down. God is jealous about you. If we the humans can be jealous about people, God is so jealous about you. “For four years, I did not pick his call. He said because of Oyedepo? I said, ‘Yes sir, don’t you know where to have your tongue? I knew you because of him; if you insult him, you are insulting my father.’ He said, ‘ah! You are overdoing your own thing.’ I said, before? Okay if you say Oyedepo is bad, me, am I good? You say the chicken is bad and the egg is good?” Ibiyeomie in 2020 threatened to arrest and kill Daddy Freeze for allegedly insulting and criticising Bishop David Oyedepo of Winners' Chapel.