The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has accused the Nigerian Government of planning to use personnel of the Department of State Services (DSS) to attack its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is being held in DSS custody in Abuja. The IPOB said the Nigerian government in collaboration with the United Kingdom plans to  attack Kanu “due to their disdain for allowing Indigenous People across the world to enjoy freedom such as the British enjoy Brexit from the European Union.”  The secessionist group which made the allegation in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said that the two governments see Kanu “as a stumbling block from their modern-day oppressive tendencies and therefore want him dead. The group alleged they made several unsuccessful attempts in Afaraukwu, Abia State, Nigeria; London, UK; USA; Kenya and even in Abuja, Nigeria's capital to kill Kanu. The group described the recent attack on Kuje prison by terrorists as a test of what the Nigerian government is planning to use DSS officers to do to Kanu, saying, “This latest plan was conceived and planned by Fulani caliphate and some Fulani governors in the North, some of whom are (Nasir) El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano, Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina and Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto, jointly adopted by the Government headed in Nigeria by Catriona Liang (British High Commissioner/Nigeria Government supervisor).” In the statement sent to SaharaReporters, IPOB said, “We the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) under the command and leadership of our great leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU wish to reiterate our earlier emphasis over intended make-believe plan to attack DSS facility Abuja by already drawn up stunt actors (DSS agents) at the very location where our leader Mazi Nnamdi is held incarcerated haven successfully tested with Kuje prison without consequences. “The plan was hatched by the Nigeria Government with strategic and tactical input from the UK Government, the reason for UK and Nigeria alliance in such cowardice and evil plan is due to their disdain for allowing Indigenous People across the world to enjoy freedom such as the British enjoy Brexit from the EUROPEAN Union. “This alliance perceives Mazi Nnamdi KANU as a stumbling block from their modern-day oppressive tendencies, therefore, wants him dead haven tried several unsuccessful attempts in Afaraukwu, London, USA, Kenya and even in Abuja for which Chukwu Okike Abiama had always proven himself. IPOB intelligence unit, the M.Branch intercepted this purported plan by Britain and Nigeria to stop Biafra agitation and freedom from Nigeria and Nigeria its allies have decided to replicate what they did in 1967-1970 and still on the way to do it again against the innocent citizens of Biafra. The world should take note. “The world should take note because if anything untoward happens to our leader Mazi Nnamdi (The leader of over 75 Million of fanatical lovers of Biafra freedom), in DSS custody nobody should blame IPOB for inevitable and uncontrollable boundless calamitous consequences that would befall to whom it may not concern, know it that your silence or accomplices hardens our conscience towards the pursuit of this great nation called Biafra. IPOB needs unconditional release of our Leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu because there is no prison in the South that is safe for him, therefore we still need him released unconditionally to avoid dangerous terms IPOB may take against Nigeria.” IPOB noted that there have been several jailbreaks in the country since President Muhammadu Buhari came to power in 2015 but nothing has been done about them. “There are many jailbreaks in Nigeria since Buhari and his APC party took over power and nothing was done or checked out the cause of these prison breaks. The number of prison breaks was so alarming and therefore no country in the world experienced the kind of jailbreaks in history." The group noted, “This latest plan was conceived and planned by Fulani caliphate and some Fulani Governors in the North some of whom are El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano, Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina and Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto states, jointly adopted by the Government headed in Nigeria by Catriona Liang (British High Commissioner/Nigeria Government supervisor). We warn that such cowardice plan be dropped, having been exposed to the public. “It is not our business that the notorious FBI most wanted super-criminal cop Abba Kyari was among major reasons for the "Kuje prison break" and has been whisked to Ghana, as at now, and we demand IPOB member's corpse in Kuje be released to us for proper funeral. “IPOB leadership works day and night to ensure that Biafra freedom is totally achieved. Mazi Nnamdi Okwuchukwu Kanu is a gentle, disciplined and peaceful leader compared to most of the characters being led, therefore we caution again that the hashed plans to tamper with Mazi Nnamdi Kanu's life be nullified immediately. “Haven lost confidence in Terrorists dominated security of Nigeria, the last thing we must never hear or condole is planned attempt on our leader's life, such attempt would never bear good fruit as teeming supporters and lovers of MNK and Biafra struggle in over 108 countries prefer to die for Kanu, a situation Nigeria can never survive from. “We urge the British Government to jettison pretence and direct the Nigeria Government and to release Mazi Nnamdi Kanu unconditionally or send back to the UK where he lives, let him be returned back to Amaechi Mbazuruike or Professor George Obiozor for his safety. “Britain must realize that we sincerely had never written nor taken our campaign to Russia, formally informing them that it finances Ukrainian war weapons from resources stolen from Biafra through British aided Nigeria Military occupation and media controlled massacre of our people. Boris Johnson and Buhari the (impostor) at CHOGBM in Kigali Rwanda never agreed to free the Innocent man Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and Igbos continue to question why the British have eternal hatred for them.” 