One of the aides to the former Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, who spoke to SaharaReporters on condition of anonymity has debunked a viral claim that the ex-governor has left the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to join Labour Party. Since Thursday morning, there have been a series of tweeps claiming that Ambode has defected to the Labour Party to contest for the Lagos governorship seat in the forthcoming 2023 election.  A Twitter user, identified as Gidi said via his verified Twitter handle, "Former Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode has Reportedly Picked a Labour Party Gubernatorial Ticket for the 2023 Lagos Polls." "I am told by a reliable source that Ambode has finished paperwork to join the Labour Party as their Gubernatorial candidate, but some Lagos APC chieftains close to him are pressuring him against it. They have promised him a ministerial position in the event APC returns to power," a Twitter user, identified as Kereti also said. However, the aide told SaharaReporters that Ambode is not planning to leave APC. "Ambode is a very loyal member of APC. What you are reading is just a lie that they (bloggers) want to use to cause more problems to Ambode. "He is not going anywhere. He is still with APC," the aide said.  “@SamzyVG: BREAKING NEWS : Former Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode has Reportedly Picked Labour Party Gubernatorial Ticket for the 2023 Lagos Polls. #ItsHappening pic.twitter.com/w8mlH9O5Zn  Ambode ran for the office of the Governor of Lagos State in April 2015 as a member of the APC, the state's ruling party. He won the election, defeating the second-place candidate, Jimi Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party by 150,000 votes. He succeeded former governor, Babatunde Fashola. In 2019, Ambode lost in the governorship primary election to Babajide Sanwo-Olu, which denied him an opportunity to run for a second term. He eventually supported Sanwo-Olu campaign that brought about a smooth transition in the state.  I am told by a reliable source that Ambode has finished paperwork to join the Labour Party as their Gubernatorial candidate, but some Lagos APC chieftains close to him are pressuring him against it. They have promised him a ministerial position in the event APC return to power.  