The National Working Committee (NWC) of the African Action Congress (AAC) has asked the First City Monument Bank (FCMB), to place a temporary lien on Account Number - 6525474017. The leadership of the party stated this in a statement made available to SaharaReporters on Monday, titled: "AAC writes FCMB management, seeks that a lien be placed on party account linked to state-sponsored impostor".  The statement signed by the party's National Publicity Secretary, Femi Adeyeye, said that the account was opened in the name of the party and is suspected to be used for fraudulent activities by one Leonard Nzenwa, an expelled member of the party. The statement reads in part, "The National Working Committee of the African Action Congress (AAC) has written the Management of the First City Monument Bank, (FCMB), requesting that a temporary lien be placed on FCMB Account Number - 6525474017 opened in the name of the party and suspected to be used for fraudulent activities by one Leonard Nzenwa, an expelled member of the party. "This is coming after the appeal court judgment; an enrolled order affirmed and adjudged Omoyele Sowore as National Chairman, in fact, and in law. The enrolled order also declared every activity of the impostor since 2019 as a nullity. "We wish to inform members of the public to be wary of their dealings with elements parading themselves as leaders of the party, as every authentic information regarding the party affairs can be confirmed on the website of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the party’s website - aacparty.org." A Court of Appeal in Abuja in June affirmed Sowore as the National Chairman of the AAC. The court held that a 2019 judgment by the High Court which sacked Sowore as the party’s chairman acted out of its jurisdiction. According to the Appeal Court, the matter was an internal affair. In 2019, the High Court, in the judgment that was delivered by Justice Iyang Ekwo, said it was satisfied that Sowore who was the presidential flag-bearer of the AAC, was validly suspended by the National Executive Committee of the party. Sowore, in an appeal marked CA/A/812/2019, challenged the High Court’s judgment declaring an expelled member of the party, Nzenwa, as the Acting Chairman. Sowore also asked the court through his lawyer and National Legal Adviser of the party, Inibehe Effiong, to set aside the judgment of the lower court and grant all the reliefs sought by the appellant.