The Secretary to the Government of the Federal (SGF), Boss Mustapha, on Monday visited the headquarters of 'Ekklesiyan Yan'uwa A Nigeria' (EYN), also known as Church of the Brethren to condole with the family of Rev. Daniel Umaru, whose two sons were murdered by terrorists last week. SaharaReporters on July 7, 2022 reported that gunmen shot Pastor Umaru, gunned down his two sons and kidnapped his 13-year-old daughter in Adamawa State.  The sons died while the pastor was taken to hospital where he has been fighting to survive. The mother of the deceased children was said to have suffered trauma following the tragedy that befell the family. The kidnappers had shot the cleric, killed his two sons and kidnapped his daughter last week. Also on July 10, 2022 SaharaReporters reported that the kidnapped 13-year-old daughter of Pastor Daniel Umaru had been freed after a huge ransom was allegedly paid to her kidnappers. Meanwhile, the remains of the two sons who were shot dead on an ill-fated night had been buried by wailing relations and friends of the family. Leading a federal government delegation on Monday SGF Mustapha said, "President Muhammadu Buhari was deeply saddened by news of the gruesome murder of the young stars.” He noted that the government was working towards ending terrorism and violent crimes in the country. While in Yola, the SGF threatened that the government would revoke contract for the rehabilitation of Yola-Mubi road in Adamawa State. He gave one week ultimatum to the contractor, AG Vision, to return to site, else the government would not hesitate to revoke the contract. The visibly displeased SGF, expressed displeasure over the contractor's handling of the project despite huge amount so far collected. "I am very disappointed with the level of work here; normally it is government that owes contractors and not contractor owing government. This contract of Yola-Mubi road was awarded to AG Vision in 2017 for N22billion because of the slow pace of work, there was a review and this year another N29billion was approved, we do not want another review, the company must return to site or face the consequences", SGF Mustapha said.