More information has emerged as to why suspected ritualists killed a 10-year-old princess, Nkemdilim Eze on June 28, 2022, in an Enugu community. SaharaReporters gathered one of two suspects arrested in connection with the murder confessed that they were sent by a witch doctor to get a virgin’s blood to appease a deity.  The young Nkemdilim, who was a native of Ede Oballa community in the Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State, was declared missing on June 28 and on July 2, 2022, her remains were recovered from a bush with her vital organs and parts missing. The community, through the Neighbourhood Watch, apprehended two persons allegedly responsible for the murder of the princess of the land and set them ablaze.They, however, confessed to the crime before the jungle justice. One of the suspects identified as Chidera Agbo said the girl was sacrificed because their deity needed to be appeased with the blood of a virgin. The suspect, who was later burnt to death alongside his accomplice, Ifeanyi Onyishi, aka, Aro bi n’agu, by an irate mob, added that Onyishi, a witch doctor, asked him to bring Nkemdilim to him for the sacrifice after he recommended her to him. A Neighbourhood Watch official quoted the late Agbo as saying: “Ifeanyi didn’t like the fact that I was being caught most of the time I went for robbery operations. “He was looking for a way to fortify his deity. One day, he told me that he had brought an abandoned deity named Idenyi to his shrine. “I was shocked to hear that from him. I asked him if he knew how to appease the deity. He told me that he needed the blood of a virgin to make the deity powerful. That was why he asked me to bring someone to her and I recommended Nkemdilim. “So, there was a masquerade festival in my village. A day before the festival, I searched for Nkemdilim but without success. “However, a day after the festival, I was in the bush smoking Indian hemp when she passed. I quickly notified Ifeanyi and he moved to the location with another suspect who I didn’t recognise. “When they got there, his friend stopped her, while Ifeanyi covered her mouth and they took her into the bush. I also followed them. “After the sacrifice, he promised he was going to ‘settle’ me very well (to give someone a substantial amount of money). He said he was going to sell a portion of his land to give me a huge sum of money that would not make me expose him.”