The Ekiti State Peoples Democratic Party is currently enmeshed in crisis after a faction called on the general public to disregard the purported appointment of the State PDP Party Chairman by a faction loyal to former Governor, Ayo Fayose. The anti-Fayose faction affirmed that the name of the substantive State Chairman of PDP as confirmed by the State Executive Council, was Deji Ogunshakin.  Meanwhile Fayose’s PDP faction in Ekiti State had earlier appointed Alaba Agboola as the substantive Chairman of the party in the state. Agboola is to replace the party’s governorship candidate in the last election, Hon Bisi Kolawole, who resigned as the state chairman to contest the governorship. The appointment of Engr Agboola as the substantive state chairman was said to be among the resolutions at the State Executive Committee meeting held in Ado Ekiti today. A statement by the Deputy Chairman, Hon Lanre Omolase, who has been acting as Chairman; and State Secretary, Mrs Funmi Ogun; read: “At the Exco meeting of the PDP, Ekiti State, which held at the State Secretariat of the Party, at the instance of the Chairman (Acting) – Hon. Lanre Omolase, on Monday, 4th July, 2022, the quorum at attendance being over and above one-third of the total membership of the Exco, deliberated on the need to appoint a substantive Chairman for our Party, in accordance with the party’s constitution. “Article 47(6) of the Constitution of our great Party, the Peoples Democratic Party, provides that: ‘Where a vacancy occurs in any of the offices of the party, the Executive Committee at the appropriate level shall appoint another person from the area or zone where the officer originated from to serve out the tenure of the officer.’ “Accordingly and in view of the resignation of our erstwhile Party Chairman Hon Bisi Kolawole, who became our party flagbearer at the recent Ekiti State Governorship Election, the State executive committee members present deliberated on an appropriate and capable stalwart from the same zone as our erstwhile Chairman and unanimously appointed Hon. Alaba Agboola as substantive Chairman, to serve out the remainder of the tenure of our said erstwhile Chairman.” However, another faction of PDP said the entire  appointment process of the State Party Chairman is exclusively the responsibility of the State Executive Council, (SEC), which comprises all major stakeholders of the party numbering about 60. This was contained in a statement signed by the Ekiti State PDP Publicity Secretary, Hon. Raphael' Wumi Adeyanju on Monday. He said, "This is to inform the general public that purported appointment of the State PDP Party Chairman by the former Governor, Mr Ayo Fayose should be ignored in its totality, since he cannot put something on nothing. "The entire process of appointment of the State Party Chairman is exclusively the responsibility of the State Executive Council, (SEC), which comprises all major stakeholders of the party numbering about 60. "The name of the substantive State Chairman of PDP as confirmed by SEC is Ogunshakin who is former Chairman, Ado Local Government and former 2018 Deputy Governorship candidate of the party,” he added.