Former governor of Jigawa State and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Alhaji Sule Lamido, has lambasted the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, for leaving his former political party, the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA).Lamido, a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, said that by leaving APGA for PDP and now to the Labour Party, Obi had compromised morally, adding that “he is now becoming nomadic, going from party to party.” The former Governor made the criticism in an interview with Vanguard.The PDP chieftain, who opposed zoning of the presidential ticket in 2023 which paved the way for the victory of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar as the candidate of PDP, boasted that Atiku would beat the All Progressives Congress’ flag bearer, Bola Tinubu, in the 2023 elections.He said, “Peter Obi is morally compromised, he should have stayed in the All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA, and promoted the party in Nigeria. He came from a sectional party, a party from a particular enclave and that is what made him what he is."Now, if he believes in the history of APGA and his own philosophy after coming to PDP, he shouldn’t have gone to the Labour Party. He is now becoming nomadic, going from party to party but he is a good man. What is happening with him is a social media thing.”Giving his reasons why Abubakar would defeat Tinubu in the 2023 presidential election, Lamido said, “There are two dimensions to this. One is about emotions, divisions and religion but I don’t want to go into divisive politics. The other one is the question of platform.“In 1998 when the parties were formed there was no APC. What we had then were four political parties in Nigeria: Alliance for Democracy, AD, the PDP, All Peoples Party, APP and a few other ones but the major ones were three."By 2003, PDP was still there but the APP had morphed into All Nigeria Peoples Party, ANPP and AD was becoming divided along conservative lines and Action Congress, AC was birthed. In 2007, there was still PDP, the ANPP and AC became Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN. By 2011, PDP was still there. So, when the other parties were formed in 2013 or thereabout, none could match the history of the PDP and this fact has not changed till today."Tinubu may be a master tactician. He is a good guy in planning and propaganda but then he is on the wrong political platform and even the way he came out, the way he won the primaries, it is very clear that even members of the APC are going to vote against him. I am being honest because of the issue of pride and their chairman who said they are going to punish Tinubu for making some uncomplimentary remarks about the President."