The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Baba, has disclosed that the Nigeria Police Force had deployed more than 13,000 police officers to various peacekeeping operations around the world. Baba disclosed this on Friday, in a statement shared on the Nigeria Police Force official twitter handle, titled: "Keeping The Peace In Africa: IGP lauds police participation in peacekeeping efforts, appoints new Director.” File photo used to illustrate story. This is in contrast with excuses of shortage of personnel usually given by the police authorities in combating the rising insecurity in the country. Security experts and analysts have also pointed out the acute shortage of police personnel in the country and underfunding of the force to meet up with modern security challenges. But the police boss, Usman, on Friday said it was a “tremendous achievement” for police officers on peace-keeping abroad who should bring glory to the Force and the country at large. The statement partly read, "IGP Usman Baba has lauded the distinguished selfless services rendered by members of the Nigeria Police Force contingent to peacekeeping operations on the African Continent and around the world aimed at deescalating violence in war-torn countries and ensuring peaceful coexistence among members of troubled nations. "In a bid to add more pep and advance the NPF’s drive for enhanced and improved participation in peacekeeping and peacebuilding operations, the Inspector-General of Police recently appointed Assistant Commissioner of Police, ACP Augustine Moses Jagaba as Director in charge of the Peacekeeping Directorate.” It added, "The IGP noted that the Nigeria Police Force has over the years deployed manpower and material assets to peacekeeping operations all around the world towards enforcing and maintaining peace in Africa and other countries of the world. "Since its first participation in Peacekeeping in 1960 with the deployment of a contingent to Congo, the list of countries with police peacekeepers is now endless. "Nigeria Police peacekeepers have participated in operations in Congo, Namibia, Angola, Western Sahara, Cambodia, Mozambique, Somalia, Rwanda, Yugoslavia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, East Timor, Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Afghanistan, Cote D’Ivoire, Burundi, Haiti, Sudan, South Sudan and Guinea Bissau to mention but a few. "The Nigeria Police has deployed more than 13,000 police officers to various UN/AU and ECOWAS peacekeeping operations." The statement disclosed that Nigeria Police Peacekeeping office was established in 2005 to coordinate peacekeeping activities with the clear vision and mission to research, train and equip officers with requisite skills and competencies required to meet complex peace support operations environment through the delivery of quality internationally recognised and professional training.