The Conservative Party will announce the replacement for British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, on September 5 following a vote among party members under rules agreed by the party's officials on Monday.TheHindu reports that the Conservative Party said the postal ballot of party members would be a choice between two candidates to be selected under an expedited process to whittle down the field from the 11 candidates who have declared so far. File photo used to illustrate story.
Justin Tallis/AFP


On Monday, the Conservative Party's 1922 committee of backbench lawmakers finalised the process for the selection of the new leader. Members of Parliament (MPs) control the process of selecting a final two, whereupon the about 200,000 members of the Conservative Party get to vote.The 11 candidates seeking to replace Boris Johnson as Prime Minister will learn the planned timetable to select the new British leader on Monday, as the contest becomes increasingly unpredictable, bitter and divisive.British Foreign Secretary, Liz Truss, became the latest high-profile name to put herself forward, echoing the promises of her rivals to cut taxes and saying she would maintain a tough line against Russian President, Vladimir Putin.The chair of the 1922 committee, Graham Brady, set out the timetable on Monday, as follows:TUESDAY JULY 12 - NOMINATIONS, FIRST ELIMINATIONSRishi Sunak maintains lead in race to become next U.K. PM; nine candidates in frayNominations to be new leader of the Conservative Party formally open, and also close. Candidates must have the support of at least 20 lawmakers to advance.WEDNESDAY JULY 13 - MORE CANDIDATES ELIMINATEDIn this first round of voting, candidates must have the backing of at least 30 lawmakers to advance.UP TO THURSDAY, JULY 21 - FURTHER BALLOTSBrady said that there would be further rounds of voting by Conservative lawmakers until a final two was reached, saying it was likely the final two would be selected by early next week.THURSDAY JULY 21 - PARLIAMENTARY RECESSLawmakers on the 1922 committee have said July 21 is the de facto deadline for the final two candidates to be selected by Conservative lawmakers, as it is when the House of Commons breaks for summer recess. Brady told Sky News they would "certainly" have the final two by July 21.JULY-SEPTEMBER - THE RUN-OFFThe two candidates campaign and hold hustings among Conservative party members to win their votes. The members vote by post. Brady said he wanted an assurance that those who reached the final two would not drop out, to ensure Conservative members would have a say.SEPTEMBER 5 - NEW PRIME MINISTER ANNOUNCEDThe Conservative Party announces who has been elected as the new leader of the party by members. As they will command a parliamentary majority, they will consequently become the next prime minister.