A media rights group under the umbrella of the Media Rights Agenda (MRA), has called on the Nigerian Government to immediately implement the judgment of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Court of Justice on its 2021 Twitter ban.  The ECOWAS Court on July 14, 2022, ruled that the recent suspension of access to Twitter in Nigeria as enforced by President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration was unlawful and in violation of the provisions of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) as well as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).  The Court also ordered Buhari’s regime to take necessary steps to align its policies and other measures to give effect to the rights and freedoms and to guarantee a non-repetition of the unlawful ban of Twitter, adding that the Nigerian Government should never “repeat it again.”  In a statement issued by its Head of Legal Department, Ms Obioma Okonkwo, MRA, which was among the four civil society organisations that dragged the Nigerian Government to ECOWAS Court, the group reminded the Nigerian authority that under Article 15(4) of the Revised ECOWAS Treaty, judgments of the Court are binding on Nigeria as a Member State. It added that Article 22(3) of the Protocol of the Community Court Justice, as amended by the Supplementary Protocol of the Court, provid that "Member States and institutions of the Community shall take immediately all necessary measures to ensure execution of the decision of the Court."  Okonkwo in the statement made available to SaharaReporters through its Communications Officer, Idowu Adewale, MRA pointed out that “In the light of the provisions and the judgment of the ECOWAS Court, Nigeria was under a legal obligation to amend its laws and policies to bring them into conformity with the African Charter and the ICCPR as well as to guarantee that the suspension of Twitter would not re-occur, as directed by the Court.”  According to the MRA, the consequential order made by the ECOWAS Court in its judgment directed the Nigerian Government to lift the suspension of Twitter since the suspension was in contravention of Article 9 of the African Charter and Article 19 of the ICCPR and also to take necessary steps to align its policies and other measures to give effect to the rights and freedoms enshrined in the African Charter and the ICCPR.  MRA also recalled that “The Court further directed the Government to undertake an act of legislative or other measures on its rules regarding Twitter to enable the enjoyment of the right to freedom of expression guaranteed under the African Charter and asked it to guarantee a non-repetition of the unlawful ban of Twitter.  “Specifically, it ordered Nigeria to ensure the unlawful suspension of Twitter would not reoccur and to take necessary steps to amend its laws to be in conformity with the rights and freedoms enshrined in the ACHPR and ICCPR.  “The Court's orders were contained in its judgment in four consolidated suits filed by MRA, other non-governmental organisations, journalists and some Nigerian citizens challenging the Government's June 2021 decision to suspend access to Twitter in Nigeria.”  These included “Suit No. ECW/CCJ/APP/29/21 filed by Mrs. Mojirayo Ogunlana-Nkanga on behalf of Media Rights Agenda and four other non-governmental organizations, namely: Paradigm Initiative (PIN), Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ), the International Press Centre (IPC), and Tap Initiative for Citizens Development (TICD) as well as four journalists, Mr. David Hundeyin, Mr. Samuel Ogundipe, Ms Blessing Oladunjoye, and Mr. Nwakamri Zakari Apollo;  “Suit No. ECW/CCJ/APP/23/21, filed by Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), on behalf of Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), a Lagos-based NGO, and 176 Nigerians;  “Suit No. ECW/CCJ/APP/26/21. Filed by Mr. Patrick Elohor, President of the NGO, One Love Foundation.  “Suit No. ECW/CCJ/APP/24/21, filed by Chief Malcolm Omirhobo, a human rights lawyer.” 