Bruce Fein, the American counsel for the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has asked women from the South-East region to embark on numerous protests to call for the release of the detained IPOB leader. Kanu has spent over a year in the custody of the Department of State Services.  Fein accused the Muhammadu Buhari-led government of engaging in genocide and crimes against Biafrans, asking the women to demonstrate “at a given time and place weekly if not daily at or near the Presidential Villa at Aso Rock and in the state capitals of Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Cross Rivers, Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Anambra, Enugu, Abia, and Imo”. According to the lawyer, dramatic public protests were employed by Argentina’s Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo to secure accountability for tens of thousands of disappeared children by a military dictatorship. Kanu, the IPOB leader, who is also a British citizen, is the most noticeable face of the Biafran movement. “Leading the deliverance of the Biafran people from the ongoing Fulani genocide like Moses and the Exodus,” Fein said in a statement dated July 5, 2022, and addressed to ‘Mothers of Biafra’, which he sent to SaharaReporters. “Towards that noble end, I encourage you to demonstrate at a given time and place weekly if not daily at or near the Presidential Villa at Aso Rock and in the state capitals of Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Cross Rivers, Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Anambra, Enugu, Abia, sand Imo. “Embroider the names of your killed, disappeared, or maimed children by Fulani terrorists on your garments. Carry signs demanding the immediate release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu; a Biafran self-determination referendum mandated by international human rights law, including Article I of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; and, prosecution of President Muhammadu Buhari for genocide by the International Criminal Court.  “Dramatic public protests were employed by Argentina’s Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo to secure accountability for tens of thousands of disappeared children by a military dictatorship. Their inspiring bravery eventuated in a 1985 documentary film: The Mothers of Plaza de Mayo. You stand in apostolic succession to them.  “You will be celebrated not only by the living but by those yet to be born. I salute your courage.”