Youths under the aegis of the Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) has expressed fears that terrorists might take over the Nigerian government soon if nothing is done urgently. The coalition said that this was obvious based on the recent attacks on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Katsina State and the bloody Kuje Prison attack where at least 10 persons and one Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officer were killed and over 800 inmates freed.  The apex socio-political group in the region in a statement by its President General, Goodluck Ibem, Monday said it arrived at the conclusion “after a careful appraisal of the recent happenings in the country” adding that the terrorists used the recent attacks as rehearsal to take over power in the country. COSEYL said, “After a careful analysis of the situation wherein the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari was attacked on his way to Katsina, his home state, and the successful Kuje Prison attack that led to the freedom of very dangerous Islamic State West African Province (ISWAP) commanders, Fulani terrorists and Boko Haram Commanders from prison; we make bold to state that the successful unchallenged attacks are a rehearsal by the terrorists to take over Aso Rock, the seat of power.” In the statement, the coalition said that “Conscience is an open wound and only truth can heal it. Does the successful unchallenged operations of the Fulani Jihadists and terrorists in Nigeria not confirm to all that the sovereignty of Nigeria has been handed over to them in broad daylight? “Nigeria under President Buhari has lost focus and direction and has nothing to tell Nigerians on why he has failed woefully to deliver democracy dividends to Nigerians. “Democracy dividends under President Buhari are only terrorist attacks, killings by Fulani Jihadists and terrorists who are his kinsmen, borrowing to pay salaries, pensions and other undemocratic conducts? “It is very hard to believe but it is a reality, that a retired Army General like President Buhari will be so overwhelmed and overpowered by terrorists. “With what is staring us in the face, President Buhari wants to turn Nigeria to another Afghanistan where Islamic Jihadists seized the political power of the country.” The coalition charged President Buhari never to “willingly surrender to Fulani Jihadists and terrorists,” adding that “The advance team of the number 1 citizen in Nigeria was attacked by Fulani terrorists and none of the terrorists were arrested. Kuje prison was heavily attacked and dangerous inmates who are terrorists were released and none of the attackers were arrested. “As a matter of fact, there was no resistance from the Nigerian security. Something is really fishy here. The federal government is really playing on the intelligence of Nigerians. “We call on the United Nations, the Prime Minister of Great Britain, the International community and all lovers of democracy and Christianity all over the world, to beam its searchlight on Nigeria before Nigeria that is a secular state is turned into an Islamic state where citizens will be forced to become Muslims in a 21st century where freedom of worship is a constitutional right to all.” 