A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) In Adamawa State, Vrati Nzonzo, has added his voice in rejecting the party’s Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket.Nzonzo lambasted the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, for undermining the interest of Christians in northern Nigeria. He said the decision to adopt a fellow Muslim as a running mate by the presidential candidate of the APC, Tinubu may have grave consequences for the party, amongst northern Christians.In an interview with journalists, Nzonzo, who is also vying for a seat in the National Assembly, vehemently condemned Shettima's selection as a fellow Muslim, as it amounted to insulting the sensibilities of Christians in Nigeria.He said, "Let me be as blunt as I can be; I'll not hesitate to show my displeasure over the decision of my party, the APC, to make our presidential ticket a religious affair."Making it a Muslim-Muslim affair has brought to the fore the issue of religion in our politics in Nigeria. Tinubu has through his scheming for the ticket promised to pick a northern Muslim as running mate. He openly said he needs to bring a Muslim VP from the North to win."So, 'ab initio', he did not paint the picture of competence as he would later want us to believe; he painted the picture of religion. The governor of Kano (Abdullahi Ganduje) was heard saying before it happened that Tinubu has promised to give them a Muslim VP from the North. Several other notable names have been corroborated.”"Does it mean Tinubu is not Muslim enough; are we having two types of Muslims or what is the issue?" Nzonzo probed.He maintained that the controversial ticket was capable of truncating the party's chances in the North."Why this issue has caused more damage than good is because for Tinubu is all about winning election, without recourse to whether it is right or not. Now what becomes of people like me who are Christians and candidates on the APC platform? Are we now saying Christian votes don't matter, if they don't, are you now not telling them not to vote for me?"Because I'm in APC and my party has refused to recognise or to be fair to my faith and it's people in Northern Nigeria. And it's not only me, a lot of other contesting Christian candidates of the Christian stock will also be victims", he lamented.Nzonzo, however, pleaded with the electorates across the country who may have been irked by the choice not to reject other APC candidates, "because it won't be fair to punish us for Tinubu's sins,” he said.