Christine Kato, a Nigerian artist, designer and young inventor has petitioned social media platforms, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, to stop taking down a breast handbag designed by her. In the petition domiciled on the Change.org platform, Kato said she created and designed the handbag to raise awareness about issues affecting women’s bodies around the world.  Speaking to SaharaReporters, she added that the inspiration behind the product emanated from a feminist view. Kato said the bag was a conversation starter about regular breast examination for early detection of breast cancer. “The inspiration behind The Breast Bag Design emanates from a feminist view: a revolution; the need to empower women to reclaim, celebrate and embrace their bodies, sexualities: to display the power of femininity: to create awareness about issues affecting women; to make femininity look fierce; to celebrate womanhood.  “It talks about; 1. Breast cancer 2. Cameroonian Breast ironing practice 3. Breast Feeding 4. Women reproductive rights 5. Women sex and sexuality 6. Sexualisation of women 7. Women and Body image.” In the petition on the online platform, she added, “I created and designed a breast handbag to raise awareness about issues affecting women’s bodies the world over. The inspiration behind the breast handbag design emanates from a feminist view. “The inspiration behind “The Breast Bag Design” emanates from a feminist view: a revolution. I made a statement piece to CELEBRATE, EMPOWER & ENCOURAGE women to embrace their bodies, and sexualities: to display the power of femininity: to create awareness about issues affecting women; to make femininity look fierce; to celebrate women. “But Instead of supporting my creation and creativity, Instagram, Facebook, and Youtube keep taking down my pages, frustrating any kind of visibility that this creation can add to the conversation around women. “I spend at least $1,000 out of my savings to make these feminist bags and how can anyone see or purchase them if I cannot advertise or promote them on social media. Your reason for taking my business page down as per violating your community guidelines is unfounded. “We have influencers that post half-nude photos of themselves, sex toy pages are still up on your platforms, but you keep taking down a legitimate creation that is creating awareness for women to take care of their bodies. “A bag that is a conversation starter about regular breast examination for early detection of breast cancer; breast cancer is the most frequent cancer among women, impacting 2.1 million women each year, and also causes the greatest number of cancer-related deaths among women. In 2018, it is estimated that 627,000 women died from breast cancer – that is approximately 15% of all cancer deaths among women. “Also, my design was to break taboos and encourage conversation around all issues that have to do with women, which include breastfeeding, breast ironing practice, breast cancer, women's sex and sexuality, women and reproductive rights, and sexualization of women, women and body image. “Enough of censorship, restore my pages NOW. I am Christine Kato, an artist-designer and young inventor looking to change narratives around me and I refuse to be silenced. Sign my petition NOW.”  Sign the Petition here;  https://www.change.org/p/facebook-instagram-youtube-stop-taking-down-the-breast-handbag-design-from-my-page?utm_source=share_petition&utm_medium=custom_url&recruited_by_id=7bee8ba0-f3af-11ec-957f-01390385a71e