The African Action Congress (AAC) has said it will take power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 general elections. According to the party, Nigerians are tired of being put in abject poverty and tortured by President Muhammadu Buhari’s government.  The party also said it has unique political qualities as an advantage over the so-called big political parties and would use it to take over the leadership of the country in the forthcoming elections.  The National Organising Secretary of the party, Oshiokhue Philip Ikpeminoghena stated this on Sunday during a general meeting of the party in Abuja.  He said the essence of the meeting was to have a synergy and harmonise all groups and leaders in the six Area Councils, wards and polling units in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in preparation for 2023.  He explained further that the meeting was also aimed at pulling stakeholders together to have a broad conversation on challenges and the way forward for a better outing in the next elections.  Oshiokhue maintained that the party has enjoyed organic grassroots support and human resources that have given it an edge over other political parties including the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  He said, "We possess what the so-called big political parties do not have, the APC and PDP of this world. We have the human resources and grassroots support and it is organic. The support we have enjoyed over time is organic.  "We were four months when 2019 elections came up and we performed so well even though the result given to us was allotted, we know we did better than what was given to us; however, the outing was good and we want to make it better this year.  "Nigerians are tired of a system which has kept them in abject poverty. The system which no Nigerian can be proud of today. We are not going to wrestle power from them, we are taking power from them. We will take it because Nigerian masses are vouching for us."  On his part, the National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Femi Adeyeye said it is glaring that the APC and PDP cannot turn things around and change the country for the better.  He noted that the two political parties APC and PDP as well as their appendage which Peter Obi represents were just "packaged fraud".  Adeyeye said, "It has become clearer these two political parties - APC and PDP and their appendage which Obi represents now cannot change anything. It is even becoming clearer that these people are just 'packaged fraud' and in the coming days, you will see a lot.  "We have resolved that a lot of work still needs to be done at the grassroots level. We understand that Nigerians are tired but they need to channel their anger toward the correct direction.”  He said the party would engage in the drive to ensure more Nigerians get Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), adding that there would be campaigns, rallies and recruitment of members into the party.