A former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi has reacted to the suit filed by the Senator representing Ondo South district, Nicholas Tofowomo challenging the outcome of the May 23, 2022, primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the district. The senator had approached the court seeking Ajayi’s disqualification as the 2023 Senatorial candidate of the party. Agboola Ajayi He was joined in the suit by the PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the second and third defendants respectively. In a suit number: FHC/CS/AK/ 83 /2022 filed on Tuesday, July 5, 2022, Senator Tofowomo who came second in the PDP senatorial primary, said Agboola did not meet the constitutional requirements for contesting the 2023 general elections as contained in the interpretation and application of Section 66(1)(i) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and Section 29(5) & (6) of the Electoral Act, 2022 as well as other relevant laws.



See Also






Sahara Reporters
PDP Senator, Tofowomo Drags Ondo Ex-Deputy Governor, Agboola To Court Over Alleged Falsified Documents
0 Comments
8 Hours Ago Tofowomo, through his lawyer, Femi Emodamori, claimed that the court should determine if together with the totality of the facts before the Court, the 1st Defendant (Agboola) did not present false information and/or forged certificate(s) in his INEC Form EC9 and the other documents attached thereto which he submitted to the 3rd Defendant (INEC) as the candidate of the 2nd Defendant for Ondo South Senatorial District in the 2023 General Elections. Reacting in a statement through his media aide, Allen Sowore on Tuesday, Ajayi described the move as an exclusive right of the lawmaker. The former deputy governor however said he has respect for Tofowomo as a brother and “recognises him as a leader”. The statement read, “The attention of the former Deputy Governor of Ondo State and PDP Candidate for Ondo South Senatorial District has been drawn to various insinuations on the media, particularly, the online platforms that the Senator Representing Ondo South in the upper Chamber of the National Assembly, Nicholas Tofowomo, may have filed a suit to challenge the outcome of the May 23rd Primary Election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “Agboola Ajayi respects Senator Nicholas Tofowomo as a brother; recognizes him as a leader and as such counts on his enormous support towards the party's victory in the forthcoming general elections. “However, it is within the exclusive right of Distinguished Senator Nicholas Tofowomo to approach the court of law wherever he feels that his right has been infringed upon and as a matter of fact, it falls within the Nigerian electoral process to so do. “Apparently, it should be noted that leaders of our great party have been working hard to appeal and persuade all aggrieved persons in the party to work together in a view to ensuring the victory of the party at the 2023 General Elections. “We are very confident as loyal party members that total reconciliation among the critical stakeholders is achievable.”