The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, has been declared winner of Saturday's governorship election in Osun state. He will be succeeding the incumbent governor, Gboyega Oyetola in office. Below are 5 things to know about the governor-elect:1. School Certificate ScandalSenator Adeleke was accused and charged to the Osogbo High Court by Rasheed Olabayo and Oluwaseun Idowu for allegedly falsifying his secondary school testimonial and West African Senior School Certificate Examination results. It was alleged that the testimonial Adeleke submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) dated July 20, 1988, reads Ede Muslim Grammar School, Osun State, when at that time, Osun state was not in existence. It was argued that another testimonial that also reads Ede Muslim High School, dated 2018, indicates that the principal who signed the 1988 testimonial also signed the 2018 testimonial. This resulted in the arrest of the principal. According to the plaintiffs, Adeleke did not take WASSCE in 1981 as claimed, since there was nothing like the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination as that time.They also alleged that the National Examination Council (NECO) examination that Adeleke claimed he took could not be genuine, considering that the body was not in existence at the time the Adeleke said he sat the examination.Meanwhile, Adeleke's lawyer, Mr Edmund Boriomoni, in his defence claimed the secondary school had not come out to deny his testimonial. He therefore asked the court to dismiss the case.The court dismissed the suit stating that the plaintiff could not prove Adeleke's forgery despite witnesses telling the court that they didn't see Adeleke in the examination hall. One of the witnesses said he would have recognised him since he is a public figure.2. One of Adeleke's children is B-Red, a Nigerian singer.B-Red was featured on two tracks from Davido's debut studio album, Omo Baba Olowo (2012). Primarily known as Davido's cousin and hype man, his career as a solo act started in 2013 with the release of the single "Insane Girl". The song features vocals from Davido and was produced by Shizzi. In 2016, he released his debut EP, All the Way Up. 3. He Was A Businessman And Administrator He served as an executive director of Guinness Nigeria Plc from 1992–1999, where his co-directors included General Theophilus Danjuma; he was the group executive director at his brother's company, Pacific Holdings Limited from 2001 to 2016. Before joining Pacific Holdings Limited, Ademola worked with Quicksilver Courier Company in Atlanta, Georgia, US, as a service contractor between 1985 and 1989. He later worked at Origin International LLC, Atlanta, Georgia, US, a flavours and fragrance manufacturing company as vice president from 1990 to 1994. 4. He Is A Former Senator Representing Osun WestHe contested in the 2017 Osun West by-election after the death of his brother, emerging as the winner on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party.On 23 July 2018, Adeleke emerged as the governorship candidate of the PDP in Osun State after defeating Akin Ogunbiyi by seven votes.5. He Was A Member Of The APC He Defeated On Saturday Ademola was a member of the All Progressives Congress he defeated on Saturday. He defected to the Peoples Democratic Party from APC in April 2017.