Ruth Bitrus, who is believed to be one of the kidnapped girls from Government Girls’ Secondary School, Chibok in 2014 has been found, the Nigerian Army has said.  This was confirmed by Troops of Operations Hadin Kai.  They said Ruth Bitrus escaped from Boko Haram captivity with her child.  Theatre Commander of Operations Hadin Kai, Major General GC Musa, made this known in Maimalarin Barracks during the official handing over of medical equipment by the North-East Development Commission to support the military on Wednesday.   He said, "You would recall that some weeks ago, we rescued two Chibok girls and their children, I will like to inform you that we have rescued another in the course of our operations.  “We will not rest until Leah Shaibu and other Chibok girls are returned and united with their families. We won’t rest until all of them are safely returned. Ruth Britus was rescued from Sambisa Forest with her son,” Maj Gen. Musa said.  In June, SaharaReporters reported that the troops rescued two Chibok girls, Mary Dauda and Hauwa Joseph, after they escaped from the Boko Haram camp in Gazuwa, located about nine kilometres from Bama Local Government Area of Borno. This was made known in a tweet posted to the Nigerian Army’s verified Twitter handle, @HQNigerianArmy. “Troops of 26 Task Force Brigade on patrol around Ngoshe in Borno State on 14 June 2022 intercepted one Mrs Mary Ngoshe and her son. She is believed to be one of the abducted girls from GGSS Chibok in 2014. Further exploitation ongoing,” the tweet read.  On the night of April 14, 2014, 276 mostly Christian female students aged between 16 and 18 were kidnapped by the Islamic terrorist group, Boko Haram from the Government Girls Secondary School in Chibok, Borno.  Before the raid, the school had been closed for four weeks due to deteriorating security conditions, but the girls were in attendance to take their final physics examination.  Also, 57 of the schoolgirls escaped immediately following the incident by jumping from the trucks on which they were being transported, and others have been rescued by the Nigerian Armed Forces on various occasions.  In January, the Kibaku (Chibok) Area Development Association (KADA), on behalf of the entire Chibok community, indicated that 110 of the 276 girls abducted were still unaccounted for.