No fewer than 15 persons have been reportedly killed in a fresh communal crisis between the people of Ngbo and Ezza in Nkwuada community.The community is in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State.  The crisis which reportedly started on Saturday night had yet to be confirmed by the State Police Command as of Tuesday.The Command's spokesman did not offer any comment when SaharaReporters contacted him on Tuesday. Instead, he handed his call to someone else to tell our reporter to call his second line before the line went off. Meanwhile, the number of the line was not provided.However, according to the Daily Trust report, most of the victims were said to be indigenes of Nkwuada.The trouble was said to have started following the killing of an indigene of Nkwuada allegedly by Ezza settlers.A native of Nkwuada told the paper that the deceased was accused of having killed a cow said to be owned by an Ezza indigene.“The cow of Ezza man was said to be missing and they traced the missing cow to the farm of one Ngbo man. The Ezza didn’t wait to hear from the man (deceased) before they organized themselves and invited their warriors who went to his house and killed him in the night.“So, after an investigation by the Nkwuada people, it was revealed that the deceased was killed by the Ezzas over an alleged missing cow belonging to an Ezzaman.“The next day having known who killed the deceased, the Ezzas quickly sent out some elders among them who came and calmed elders of Nkwuada and promised to bring out the perpetrators to face the law.“But that did not happen, the people of Ngbo the next day mobilised and attacked the people of Ezza in their settlement and the Ezza the next day (Saturday) mobilised their warriors and attacked the people of Nkwuada and killed not less than 15 persons.”It reported that another resident dispelled the killing of the cow as the main cause of the crisis.The resident, however, traced the crisis to anger among the people of Ezza which was said to have been bottled up. According to the source, the Ezza people were struggling to survive following Effium communal clash but were not allowed to settle in Nkwuaba.SaharaReporters reports that Nkwuada Ngbo community shares boundaries with Effium and the people of Izzi in the Ebonyi Local Government Area of the state.Meanwhile, Effium community has been in constant communal war with Ezza settlers in the community for several years now which has claimed several lives and led to the destruction of property running into millions of naira on both sides.When SaharaReporters reached the Chairman of Ngbo Council, Mr. Clement Odah, he confirmed the crisis but didn't give the causality figure.“The incident happened on Saturday and another one happened yesterday, being Monday. I have told you the efforts we are making. Give us time to gather the facts or you go to the police. I spoke to you as the chief security officer of the local government area,” he said.