The apex body of Yoruba self-determination and self-preservation struggle, the Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide (IOO) is set to file a fresh suit challenging the making and validity of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria at the Abuja division of the Federal High Court. The group, which affirmed that the suit would be re-filed in the next two weeks, said the decision to withdraw the suit from the court where it was and to re-file was in line with the new Practice Direction since the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice resides in Abuja.  This was contained in a statement signed by Maxwell Adeleye, the Communications Manager to the Leader of the agitators, Prof Banji Akintoye, adding that the Ilana Omo Oodua counsel and other Senior Advocates of Nigeria advised that as ruled by the judge in Ekiti State, what the Plaintiffs in Ekiti and Osun states are praying for are matters that affect the whole Nigerian Federation. The statement reads; “The Lead Counsel representing us in the case, Mr Tolu Babaleye, has advised that the Plaintiffs should withdraw the suits in order to consolidate the matter and refile it at the Abuja division of the Federal High Court because the major prayer which is the invalidation of the 1999 constitution of Nigeria can only be heard at the Abuja Division in line with the Ruling of Ado-Ekiti division of the Court on appropriate forum. “Aftermath the Ruling on the Matter in Ado-Ekiti Federal High Court, Our Counsel and other Senior Advocates advised that as ruled by the Judge in Ekiti, what the Plaintiffs in Ekiti and Osun States are praying for are matters that affect the whole Nigerian Federation. “The Plaintiffs want the 1999 constitution invalidated because its making is against the spirit of natural justice and fairness and the Judge in Federal High Court in Ekiti State ruled that the appropriate place to institute the matter is the Abuja Division, and not in Ekiti. “Though we have our reservations, we do not want to waste our time on technicalities. We are withdrawing the suit in Osogbo, the Plaintiffs in Osogbo will join the Plaintiffs in Ado-Ekiti, with fresh Plaintiffs who are indigenes of Lagos, Ogun, Oyo and the Ondo States to institute the case afresh in the Abuja Division of Federal High Court. “Our Legal Team is of the opinion that this is the best way to go and they are confident that the outcome of the suit will make the Yoruba People and all lovers of Justice, Fairness and Self-Determination worldwide rejoice. As far as we are concerned, it is a no retreat, no surrender,” the statement said.