 The Christian Association of Nigeria has disassociated itself from suspected Christian bishops who attended the unveiling of the vice-presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Kashim Shettima on Wednesday.  The Christian body described such persons pictured at the venue of the event dressed in robes as desperados.  The Vice President of CAN for 19 Northern States and Abuja, who doubles as the association’s chairman in Kaduna State, Rev. Joseph Hayab, who addressed journalists in Abuja, said their effort would only add to their many ropes but would not change the need for fairness and justice. According to Hayab, the people paraded as bishops at the APC event “did not have enough time to learn how to wear Bishop garments”. “Take a closer look at their photo and you will see another Nollywood movie,” he said. Many Nigerians, particularly Christians and Christian bodies have condemned the Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket of the APC. Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the party, who is a Muslim, has insisted on having Kashim Shettima, a fellow Muslim, as his running mate. Tinubu is from Southern Nigeria while Shettima, a former Borno governor, is from the Muslim-dominated Northern part of the country. CAN also accused Tinubu’s camp of desperately trying to sell Shettima to Christians, and doing everything, including lying to push out a wrong narrative. “CAN wonders why the desperation. First, a story was out claiming to have come from the Chairman of CAN Borno state only to be refuted. Secondly, there was another lie that BAT (Bola Ahmed Tinubu) and his running mate were on their way to meet CAN President one night. A meeting that was not true and was on a night that the CAN President was in Alabama USA attending Baptist World Alliance Conference of which he is the Vice President.  “Another desperation story was that they met Papa Adeboye which the RCCG later refuted. If Christians are not important why the desperation?  “BAT is free to hire mechanics and other artisans and sew clerical garments for them. An effort that will only add to their many ropes when the political exercise is over but will not change the need for fairness and justice that CAN is calling for.  “CAN appreciate that we are in a democracy, no need to do funny and dubious things just to prove a point because it will in the end bounce back. BAT team should simply do what is right and stop the drama," he said. 