The Inspector-General of Police Mr Usman Baba has ordered the deployment of a police team to Osun, ahead of Saturday's governorship election in the state.  A statement on Sunday by the Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, posted on the Force’s official Twitter handle, said five Armored Personnel Carriers for patrol, as well as three helicopters and six Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) for aerial surveillance, were among other unique operational assets deployed to ensure security during and after the election.  According to the statement, the team would be headed by Mr Johnson Kokumo, the Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID).  Adejobi said Kokumo, also the supervisory DIG for the South-West, would be assisted by four Assistant Inspectors-General of Police (AIGs) during the election.  He said four Commissioners of Police (CPs), 15 Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) and 30 Assistant Commissioners of Police were also deployed for the exercise.  According to him, adequate police personnel of the rank of Chief Superintendents of Police and below have equally been deployed for the election.  The statement is titled: "Osun Election: IGP Orders Deployment of DIG, senior officers on election security management: IGP Addresses Stakeholders on July 12, Deploys Election CP to Osun." The statement reads in parts, "The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, psc (+), NPM, fdc has ordered the deployment of the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) who is the supervisory DIG for the South-West Geo-Political Zone, DIG Johnson Babatunde Kokumo, psc(+), mni for the Osun State Gubernatorial Election scheduled to hold on Saturday 16th July, 2022.  "He is to be assisted by 4 Assistant Inspectors-General of Police, 4 Commissioners of Police, 15 Deputy Commissioners of Police, and 30 Assistant Commissioners of Police. Adequate police personnel of the rank of Chief Superintendents of Police and below have equally been deployed for the election.  "DIG Kokumo is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Operation Order evolved from the Election Security Threat Assessment, to ensure a peaceful and conducive environment devoid of violence and to guarantee law-abiding citizens in the state of secured space to freely perform their civic responsibilities without molestation or intimidation.  "Other Senior Officers deployed are tasked with coordinating human and other operational deployments in the three (3) Senatorial Districts, thirty (30) Local Government Areas and the 3,753 polling units in Osun State. The IGP ordered deployment of the Commissioner of Police and Provost Marshall at the Force Headquarters, CP Julius Alawari to Osun State for the election, while CP Olokode Taoheed Olawale, the Osun State Commissioner of Police has been temporarily moved to the Force Headquarters until the conclusion of the election.  "The IGP, who has been billed to meet with stakeholders in Osogbo on Tuesday 12th July, 2022, emphasized that these necessary operational deployments are part of actions aimed at creating a conducive and enabling environment that will guarantee peaceful and proper conduct of the Osun Gubernatorial election.  "The IGP further noted that the personnel, comprising conventional police officers, Police Mobile Force (PMF), Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Forces personnel, Explosives Ordinance Disposal Unit (EOD), Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB), INTERPOL, Special Protection Unit (SPU), Police Airwing, Public Relations Department (FPRD), as well as Police Medical Teams, will be on the ground to guarantee free, fair, credible and acceptable election. In addition, five (5) Armored Personnel Carriers for patrol as well as three (3) helicopters and 6(six)  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) for aerial surveillance amongst other unique operational assets were also deployed."  The Force Public Relations Officer quoted the Police boss to have reassured the nation and the international community that the Force was satisfactorily prepared for the election.  "He reiterated the commitment of the Force to synergizing with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), all stakeholders and other security agencies to protect democratic values, provide level playing field for all political actors, ensure adequate protection of voters, INEC officials, equipment, accredited observers, both domestic and international, and other key players in Osun State.  "The IGP, therefore, admonished the good people of Osun State to be law-abiding and comply with the restriction of movement order which will be announced as and when due.  "The IGP equally urged them to come out en masse and exercise their franchise as adequate security has been emplaced by the Police and other security agencies to protect them before, during, and after the election."  