An Anambra State resident has been accused of placing two coffins and assorted charms in a disputed piece of land to stop the Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, from demolishing the said property. The presence of the fetish materials did not deter the government officials from carrying out the demolition of the property, which is said to be near the Governor’s Lodge in Onitsha.  SaharaReporters learnt that the resident had fenced the property and the Anambra government was said to have demolished structures in the disputed land for the fifth time. SaharaReporters learnt on Tuesday, that since the last demolition of the fence of the property earlier this year, the resident, whose name could not yet be ascertained, had gone ahead to build on the land and allegedly placed two coffins and charms at strategic placed on the disputed property to scare the government team away from further incursion in the land. But the government taskforce, comprising security personnel and officials of the relevant state government agencies on Monday in continuation of demolition of illegal structures, defied the charms and pulled down the structures erected on the land and destroyed the coffins. The Chairman, Anambra State Physical Planning Board, Chike Maduekwe, who led the taskforce, while addressing journalists after the exercise, vowed that no amount of intimidation would stop or make the government not to reclaim the land which he said was designated for judges’ quarters. Maduekwe said that the parcel of land was designated for judges’ quarters and the government had started developing the site, wondering why the Onitsha resident, said to be a lawyer, would continue to trespass on the property. He said, “We have the directive to arrest him and prosecute him if he ever trespasses on this land again. The Anambra State Government can no longer tolerate this kind of impunity and will ensure that any interloper is prosecuted. “The government of Prof Chukwuma Soludo believes in the rule of law and will not allow people to have their way with this kind of unlawful activities.” 