Gunmen in military and police uniforms have reportedly kidnapped six residents of Mgbuji- Eha-Amufu community in the Isi-Uzo council area of Enugu State.  Eha-Amufu communities especially Mgbuji, Agu-Amede and Ebor have been facing attacks by suspected Fulani militias reportedly imported from Niger and Chad in November 2021.  SaharaReporters had reported that over 20 residents of the Eha-Amufu were kidnapped by terrorists and over 20 others killed between December and June 2022.  It reported that 14 farm settlements in Mgbuji community with over 3,000 inhabitants were sacked recently and hundreds of houses and properties were destroyed by armed men believed to be herdsmen.  Community sources told SaharaReporters on Sunday that the latest kidnapping incident happened on Saturday evening.  This comes two weeks and three days after the state police commissioner, Abubakar Lawal, alongside all other heads of security agencies in Enugu visited the troubled community and promised them adequate security.  The spokesman for Mgbuji community, Chijioke Ogbodo, who confirmed the abduction of six persons on Sunday, told SaharaReporters that all the abductors were in military and police uniforms. He said they wore uniforms to trick the people since their former methods of kidnapping people were no longer working.  Ogbodo, while lamenting the constant killing and abduction of his people, disclosed that two people were first kidnapped on Thursday while three others miraculously escaped. "On Saturday evening they returned in military and police uniforms and kidnapped four other persons," he said.  He said, "Three of our people who escaped the attack on Thursday, told us that the Fulani kidnappers wore military and police uniforms all through. We have reported to the police and all the authorities concerned, yet we have not seen any help coming. Our people have been contributing money to pay ransom to rescue those that were not killed.  "Our community is under siege of foreign Fulani militia. They sacked us from farms and settlements and now we cannot move freely on the road. Garrison commander, police commissioner, state director of Department of State Services (DSS) and other senior security chiefs were here in our community on June 17, 2022.  "They promised us heaven and earth, and how they are going to flush out these criminals. As we speak we haven't seen a single security agent or the security equipment they said they were bringing to track down the hoodlums. Our local security guards don't have guns and sophisticated weapons to match the bandits. They always come with military grade of weapons like submachine guns, AK-49 rifles among others," he lamented.  Ogbodo, however, appealed to the state government to provide them with sophisticated weapons to match the arms used by the terrorists if security agencies cannot protect them.  "We cannot defend our community and ourselves with bare hands," he said.  The Public Relations Officer of the state police command, Daniel Ndukwe, did not answer when SaharaReporters called his mobile line to seek clarification on the latest incident.  He also didn't respond to a text message sent to him. 