A bill seeking to establish a Federal University in Abia State on Wednesday scaled through the first reading stage at the Nigerian Senate amid poor funding of the educational sector and a strike by university lecturers that is in its fifth month.  For many years, little or nothing has been achieved in the education sector by successive Nigerian leaders who observers believe have only paid little or no attention to the sector. This is despite the promises made by politicians during campaigns that they will give education the deserved priority in the country’s polity. File photo used to illustrate story. While primary and secondary school systems have gradually slipped into comatose with many private schools springing up on almost every street in the country, the Nigerian government is going the same route with tertiary education with the establishment of universities it cannot fund.  Currently, the Academic Staff Union of Universities and other bodies like the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Allied and Educational Institutions are all on strike to compel the Nigerian government to revitalise the country's educational system.  But that did not stop the Senate from adopting a bill to establish a new federal university.  Titled “A bill for an Act to provide for the establishment of Federal University of Medical Sciences and Biomedical Technology, Umunna, Abia State and for Matters Connected Therewith 2022. (SB. 985),” the bill was sponsored by the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu.  The passage of the bill followed its presentation by the Deputy Leader of the Senate, Senator Ajayi Boroffice during plenary.  The lawmakers in a voice vote presided by Senate President Ahmad Lawan voted in favour of its passages shortly after it was read to members of the Red Chamber.  The bill will go through second reading.  According to the bill, the university will award diplomas, first degrees, postgraduate research and higher degrees with an emphasis on planning, adaptive, technical, maintenance, developmental and productive skills in the field of Medicine, biomedical engineering, scientific, and allied professional disciplines relating to health resources.