A human rights lawyer, Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor has called on Anambra State Governor, Charles Soludo to caution officers of the state task force to desist from further harassment of innocent civilians in the guise of enforcing the law.  Ejiofor, who is the lead counsel for Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), said the gross abuse of public office by the power-drunk officers is a grave disregard for the sanctity of human life which he described as ridiculous and unacceptable. Ifeanyi Ejiofor Ejiofor disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Abuja while reacting to the assault and humiliation of Prophet Chukwuemeka Ohanaemere aka Odumeje in a viral video by security operatives.  Officials of the task force on Thursday physically assaulted the controversial cleric.  The founder of the Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention and Deliverance Ministry was said to have received a beating while trying to stop the state task force from demolishing his church in Onitsha. See Also






News
Soldiers, Policemen Who Brutalised Prophet Odumeje Must Be Arrested, Prosecuted – AAC Presidential Candidate, Sowore Condemns Attack On Anambra Cleric 
0 Comments
1 Day Ago The ministry, popularly known as 'Land of freedom and miracle centre' was shortly after the former Central Bank Governor, Professor Soludo got into office as state governor, marked for demolition in what residents have tagged as a witch-hunt for not supporting him during the governorship election that brought him in November 2021. According to Ejiofor, the governor must condemn in unequivocal terms, the violent attack, molestation and manhandling of Odumeje by his overzealous enforcement officers. See Also






Christianity
Anambra Task Force Officials Beat Up ‘Dancing Prophet’ Odumeje, Demolish Church Building For Violating State Code
0 Comments
1 Day Ago The lawyer said the action of the officers was wrong, barbaric, uncivilised and in gross violation of the extant rights of the cleric. He also demanded reparation for the infraction to assuage the trauma the clergyman must have gone through, which he said must be followed by an unreserved apology.  The statement read in part, "Yesterday, being the 7th day of July 2022, video clips of the grievous assault on Prophet Chukwuemeka Odumeje surfaced online. We were not quick to jump to conclusions until necessary contacts were made to ascertain their authenticity.  "I personally called Prophet Odumeje to confirm the authenticity or otherwise of the degrading video clips.  "Governor Soludo should be properly guided to immediately (keep a tight) rein on the lawless enforcement officers he deployed to torment an innocent civilian, in the guise of task force.  "It is sad to note that this is not a palatable start for the hitherto, highly rated Governor of Anambra state, who is just spending his first 100 days in office, still issuing statements without tangible results yet.  "We, the Anambrarians are not averse to his Excellency's people-orientated policy, geared towards bringing the proceeds of good governance home "  The statement urged the governor to maintain civility by sanctioning the activities of these lawless officers around him. It also condemned the reckless killings and genocidal massacre of innocent civilians by overzealous law enforcement agents deployed to Anambra to maintain law and order.  He added that the gory pictures and video clips of youths in Ogbaru hacked to death in their prime were heart-wrenching.  The statement, therefore, called for adequate profiling and strict adherence to professional rules of engagement to avoid the killing of innocent citizens as we witnessed in Ogbaru weeks ago.  "For the records, I am among the few, who publicly condemned the heinous criminal activities of the men of underworld going on in our land, as well as the senseless killings by the enemies of our people which criminality also led to the unfortunate kidnapping of my Aunty. I never hesitated in urging our youth and fellow Anambrarians to join hands in reclaiming our lands from these monsters.  “I still stand by this position and shall continue to encourage all and sundry to resist these criminalities.  "However, in so doing by the relevant law enforcement agents and volunteers, caution must not be thrown to the wind.  "There must be adequate profiling and strict adherence to professional rules of engagement to avoid killing of innocent citizens in the process, just as the unfortunate situation we witnessed in Ogbaru weeks ago.  "I, therefore, urge Governor Soludo, to set proper machinery in motion to ensure that the activities of these trigger-happy Law Enforcement Agents are strictly monitored and regularly appraised. Ejiofor added. 