The Nigerian Government, through the Federal Ministry of Education, has ordered the closure of all Federal Government Colleges (FGCs) in Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja due to rising insecurity. The government directed the immediate evacuation of the students because of the threat to their lives, security and well-being, SaharaReporters learnt on Monday.  It was gathered that on Sunday night, a yet-to-be-verified report trended on social media indicating that there were heavy shootings in Federal Government College (FGC), Kwali, Abuja, and that parents rushed to the school to ascertain the safety of their children and possibly return home with them until calm was restored. According to Daily Sun, a parent identified as Chika whose three children are in FGC, Kwali, confirmed that a message came from the school that parents should come to pick up their children no later than Monday noon. Also, a school teacher at FGGC, Bwari, said the directive they received from the Federal Ministry of Education was that students should vacate the school before Wednesday.  Similarly, a parent whose son is in Junior Secondary School 3 in Federal Government Boys’ College, Apo, confirmed that the school would close on Monday (today) as against the date in the calendar and that parents had been asked to pick up their children on Monday unfailingly. He said: “My son told me that they were rushed to finish their examination, that they wrote four subjects every day which, to me, was too much for the brain of these children. “I also learnt that Federal Government Technical College, Orozo, Abuja, sent children packing on Friday last week, and immediately they rushed them to finish the examination as against the calendar. This is abnormal, and it’s an indication of points to the fact that there’s a threat, and it’s wise for the schools to release the children back to their parents.” When contacted by SaharaReporters for comments and clarification on Monday, the Federal Ministry of Education said it would release a statement on the issue later in the day. 