Some traders on Old Galaxy road in Osogbo are counting their losses after the Osun State governorship election that was held on Saturday. Thugs suspected to be members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), were reported to have attacked and destroyed their shops for voting for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s, candidate, Ademola Adeleke.  Adeleke defeated the incumbent Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, of the ruling APC in the keenly contested poll. The Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room had described the poll as the most peaceful election in the history of Nigeria, saying that there no report of violence in all the areas monitored. However, in a video that went viral on Monday, SaharaReporters saw some traders who had shops in Old Galaxy, Osogbo, lamenting the destruction of their business shops for voting for the PDP candidate in the election. The voice in the video which showed the destroyed shops, said "This is where we are trading to just survive for living, the Igbos in old galaxy. We are not partisan and they said that the reason why they are breaking it (our shops) is because we are part of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); and that we are the people that voted PDP to win. "Yes, we can cast our votes and we make our choice. I don't know the reason while they should attack and destroy our businesses because we have every right to exercise our franchise. I don't see the reason while it would be like this, destroying Igbo shops. It is not supposed to be so. Let them tell us if we are no longer the same one Nigeria. If they don't want us to live together, let them tell us. "It is not supposed to be like this and I still know that even in our side - (Igbo land), we still have Yorubas, they are still in our place, we are not treating them like this. I don't see the reason our own should be different. "The kind of things we are receiving - this is not the first time, in the past election we saw our businesses destroyed. Now this present one, we are still seeing it. I don't know whether we are safe here or we are not.”