The Taraba State Police Command said it had deployed personnel to Manya and Sabongida Kpasimbe communities in the Takum Local Government Area of the state after reported attacks by gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen.  The Command said that nobody was killed during the attack. It also noted that no one was missing.  Manya and Sabongida Kpasimbe communities were said to have come under heavy attack early on Sunday morning, forcing residents to flee to Nyivu in the Donga Local Government Area for safety, The PUNCH reports.  A member representing Takum I State Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Garba Ajiya, who confirmed the latest attack said no life was lost in the incident.  A resident of Manya, Mr Tanko Tsokwa, who spoke to the paper said he fled to Takum town for safety, adding that the attackers invaded the community and started shooting around 5.30 am.  “They came in large numbers in the company of cows and started shooting sporadically. Luckily enough, we were able to escape through the river and cross over to Nyivu.  “I can’t confirm any casualty, but many people, especially women, and children are missing,” he said.  Ajiya, while confirming the attack, said his village, Sabon-Gida Kpashimbe, was also attacked but no life was lost.  The lawmaker said, “Yes, they attacked and burnt houses in Manya and my village Sabon-Gida Kpashimbe, but no life was lost. I was told they have proceeded to Kwesati in the neighbouring Ussa Local Government Area.  “At present, 21 villages in my constituency have been sacked by the attackers who have now occupied the communities and are feeding on people’s farms.  “They have converted some of the houses that were not burnt to their houses where they are staying and committing these atrocities.  “I want to call on the government to provide immediate relief to the IDPs to address the humanitarian situation in areas under attack and take steps to end the killings.”  Speaking on the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Gambo Kwache, said more police personnel have been deployed to the communities to ensure there is peace in the affected area.  “We have made a deployment to the area and our men are on the trail of the attackers,” she said.  It was gathered that 120,000 people from communities in Ussa and Takum mostly inhabited by the Kuteb ethnic group have been displaced since January this year following several attacks. 