Portia Odufuwa, the woman suspected of opening fire at the Dallas Love Field Airport Monday, has accused her husband of having illicit affairs, according to the Dallas Police. Odufuwa said it was her husband's infidelity that upset her to cause chaos on Monday.  Dallas police said she had been dropped off at the airport and entered the terminal. “Odufuwa went inside a women’s restroom and a short time later came out into the ticket counter area and fired a weapon several times,” police said. A Dallas police officer nearby engaged the suspect and shot her “in the lower extremities,” police said. No other injuries were reported among passengers, airport workers or responding officers. It’s unclear if she was aiming at anything specific, Chief Eddie Garcia said at a press conference Monday. “At this point we don’t know where exactly this individual was aiming,” Dallas Police Chief Eddie Garcie told reporters earlier. A witness also said she saw the armed woman dressed in all black, walking in the terminal “with guns up.” “We were at the counter checking in, and I was trying to check in and we heard someone yelling,” Judy Rawle told the station. “And we looked up and we saw her walking down with guns up.” Rawle said she had heard from another witness that the suspect “was upset because her husband had got fired from somewhere.” It was also revealed that the suspect was arrested in 2019 for a dismissed Booking photo case. It was learnt that Odufuwa also previously told police she was ‘God’s prophet,’ married to Chris Brown. Odufuwa had a series of run-ins with police, including a misdemeanor case last year when she was ruled unfit to stand trial and ordered to get help for her mental health, New York Daily News reports. She has been charged with aggravated assault against a public servant, according to online jail records. Before the airport shooting, Odufuwa had racked up a string of arrests for arson, robbery, criminal trespass and false reporting across North Texas, according to the Dallas Morning News. In April 2021, she was accused of pulling the fire alarm at a Mesquite hotel after they refused to extend her stay. When police asked for her address, she allegedly gave that of Chris Brown’s mansion. In October 2019, Odufuwa allegedly set a house on fire, but the Dallas County District Attorney’s office declined to press charges due to a lack of scientific evidence. After telling police she was “responsible for the fire,” she said she had set the blaze because “I am God’s prophet,” according to an arrest affidavit obtained by the Morning News. She also allegedly told officers that she wouldn’t say anything else until she talked to Brown, who she identified as her husband.