The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on Thursday alleged that Islamic terrorists are plotting to eliminate its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, in the facility of Nigeria’s secret police, the Department of State Services (DSS).  The pro-Biafra leader, Kanu has been in the detention facility of the DSS since June 2021, when the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami broke the news of his rendition to Nigeria.  Following Tuesday’s terrorist attack on Kuje Correctional Centre, in which hundreds of inmates, including terrorists, escaped, IPOB said their leader, Kanu and other members of the group are being targeted for attack by terrorists. The pro-Biafra group in a statement issued, on Thursday, by its spokesman, Emma Powerful, said their leader should be transferred to a prison in the South-East to ensure his safety. The statement partly reads, “We want everybody to understand that the reality of the Fulani agenda to Fulanise Nigeria is around the corner. All Fulani’s calculated plan to attack our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, in DSS custody is being done with full collaboration with the DSS.  “Our intelligence unit uncovered the Fulani evil plan against our leader. Therefore, we demand that our leader Kanu be immediately transferred to a prison in the Eastern region for his safety because if anything untoward happens to him Nigeria will see and feel total and consuming madness even after the Biafran Nation’s freedom is fully achieved; they will never have peace.”  Powerful also alleged that terrorists arranged the recent attack on President Muhammadu Buhari’s advance team to raise money for arms procurement.  “What happened in Katsina with reference to the so-called attack on Buhari is an arranged attack by Buhari and Fulani to raise more money to procure and acquire arms which they will use to prosecute their planned jihad to conquer every part of Nigeria but Biafraland will be their waterloo because we are Umuchineke.  “A very pertinent question to ask is, how can bandits and terrorists be rampaging the North, even supposedly attacking the president’s convoy and breaking into prison yards to release their colleagues while Buhari and Fulani governments deployed and continue to deploy battalions of soldiers to occupy many peaceful communities in Biafraland? The international community must watch and pay attention to the Nigerian Government and its Fulani Islamisation and Fulanisation agenda." IPOB warned nothing should happen to its members who were detained in the facility for committing no crime other than being of Igbo extraction.  IPOB alleged that the attack was a plot by terrorists to eliminate members detained in the facility, and called for their release.  It added, “We the global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) under our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu wish to draw the world’s attention to the Nigerian Government and its security agencies, especially the Army and DSS agents’ instruction to the bandits rampaging the North to attack the Kuje correctional centre in Abuja.  “The Nigeria security agencies, especially the military and DSS agents in a covert action detailing a systematic strategy to eliminate IPOB members detained in Kuje prison and yesterday’s attack has confirmed our earlier intel.  “We want to let the world know that IPOB members were profiled and detained in Kuje prison yards for simply being persons indigenous to Biafra and of Igbo race.  “We have their details and want them alive because if anything untoward happens to our comrades who are detained in Kuje, IPOB will never take it easy with Nigeria Government and her security agencies.  “It is high time to release these innocent folks who were detained illegally and unjustly, Nigeria cannot continue to detain them indefinitely while allowing terrorists and bandits to come and slaughter them under disguised arrangements by the Buhari-Fulani administration.” 