Nigerians on Twitter have condemned the House of Representatives’ spokesperson, Benjamin Kalu, for allegedly bringing his mistress to the hallowed chamber to address journalists.This is coming amid allegations by a former member of the House, Hon. Robinson Uwak, that Kalu had an illicit affair with his estranged wife, Kezia. He also said that Kalu, whom he refers to as senior, was responsible for his broken marriage. Although Kalu described the allegations as frivolous meant to cast aspersions on his integrity, he did not however deny the allegations.He had said his focus was on how to bring dividends of democracy to his constituents and return to the legislative chamber in 2023.But the lawmaker set social media on fire on Thursday when the news broke that he brought his mistress to the House to address the National Assembly journalists.Describing Kalu’s action as unconstitutional and flagrant disrespect for the House, Nigerians berated the Reps’ spokesperson and condemned his action.A twitter user, @Haleemerh_ wrote, “The Hon Benjamin Kalu from Bende Federal Constituency is openly misusing his power. Inviting your mistress to address the press is the height of it.“How would Hon Benjamin Kalu allow his mistress to address the National Assembly on their personal matter!“This is not good at all, using the NASS Journalists to spin a story bordering on his personal issues, it’s so unbelievable.“Do they even checkbalance of peer works anymore because why will Hon Benjamin Kalu from Bende Federal Constituency, invite his mistress to address the press.”Also, @tboy_again wrote, “If you have family issues, take it to where it should be addressed and not the NASS ffs! Hon Benjamin Kalu has just abused power by allowing his mistress mount and address journalists at the National Assembly over infidelity in their marriage.”@themeed_UIUX said, “Wetin Musa no go see for gate, especially if it is the National Assembly gate where Hon. Benjamin Kalu is abusing power with his mistress.”Another user, @Miss__itsoxoo wrote “Wonder shall never end. Representative of Bende Federal constituency, Hon Benjamin Kalu gave his wife access to address NASS on their alleged infidelity in their marriage. If this is not abuse of power, then I don’t know what it is.“Hon Benjamin Kalu is really making the National Assembly look like a joke, why on earth will he invite his mistress to address journalists?”@themeed_UIUX wrote that “This is a disgrace on Hon. Benjamin Kalu for allowing his mistress address in the National Assembly.”For @badboydems_, “This is disrespect to the National Assembly Press. Hon Benjamin Kalu can’t just invite his mistress to speak to journalists attached to the National Assembly.”@Miss__itsoxoo said that “Many so-called "leaders" in Nigeria tend to misuse or abuse power. If not so, why will Hon Benjamin Kalu from Bende Federal Constituency, invite his mistress to address the press?”While @funny_dagreat noted that “National Assembly Press is not Hon Benjamin Kalu father's property that he has to invite his mistress to speak to journalists attached to the National Assembly.”