The youths wing of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, OYC, has said the All Progressives Congress, APC’s candidate, Bola Tinubu’s choice of former Borno State, Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima as his running mate is a disaster to Nigerian unity. The Ohanaeze youths in Enugu State on Monday said the choice of Shettima was against the law of natural justice. Ohanaeze Ndigbo The National President of OYC, Okwu Nnabuike urged Nigerians to stop the APC from destroying the country. He said the level of killings and violence targeted at Christians under the present administration was unprecedented and expressed concerns that the Christian community would become a totally endangered species under the Muslim-Muslim presidency. He declared that Tinubu’s decision was an insult on millions of Christians in the country as no religion had precedence over the other. “Today, we have deemed it fit to alert Nigerians of a looming danger ahead of the 2023 general elections. This is, following Bola Tinubu’s decision to opt for a Muslim-Muslim ticket, despite obvious reasons why he should not go such a route. “This is totally unacceptable and should be rejected by anyone who means well for the country,” Okwu declared. Okwu recalled that, “in 2014, Tinubu made efforts to force Muslim-Muslim ticket on Buhari, but the President resisted it by listening to the wise counsel of people like former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki. He balanced the ticket. “Fast forward to seven years after, Tinubu now desperately wants to actualise a Muslim-Muslim presidency. There is more to this than meets the eyes. The insensitivity of Tinubu and the APC leadership is dreadful and that is their downfall. “We see this as a grand conspiracy to sink Nigeria. How can anyone contemplate this arrangement in a multi-ethnic and multi-religious society like Nigeria? APC should forget 2023, they have shut themselves on the foot; we can’t allow them to destroy Nigeria. They lost the opportunity to compete very well in the forthcoming election. “Nigerians, Christians and Muslim brothers who mean well for the country should rise and resist it to the last, it will never fly. The country has never been this polarised and every sensitive person should have been concerned with processes that would engender national cohesion and unity but what we have seen from APC’s Tinubu is a further division of the country.” SaharaReporters had reported that the APC candidate, Tinubu, on Sunday announced Shettima, a fellow Muslim as his running mate for the 2023 presidential election. “The former Lagos Governor asserted the choice was based on competence - our question to him is simple: does it mean that from the 19 Northern States, there is no competent Christian? We can see the obvious falsehood in Tinubu’s claims. “No religion is more superior to the other, but this is what Tinubu is making people to believe, a situation that would throw the country into avoidable crisis,” Ohanaeze said. He advised Nigerians to place the country above self, stressing that, “justice and equity are the true ingredients of democracy.”