The Zamfara State Government has suspended the Emir of Sabon Birnin Yandoto of Tsafe local government area of the state, Aliyu Garba Marafa, for turbaning a notorious repentant bandit leader, Adamu Aliero, as Sarkin Fulani (leader of Fulani).  Secretary to the State Government, Kabiru Sardauna, announced the suspension in a statement on Sunday.  The statement reads, “This is to inform the general public that the Zamfara State Government has dissociated itself from the alleged turbaning of a Sarkin Fulani by the Emir of Birnin ‘Yandoto of Tsafe Local Government Area.  “In this regard, the State Executive Governor, Hon. Bello Mohammed Matawalle, MON (Shattiman Sokoto) has directed for suspension of the Emir with immediate effect.  “Accordingly, the Executive Governor has approved the appointment of a committee to investigate the circumstances leading to the action of the Emir.  “In the meantime, Alh. Mahe Garba Marafa, who is the District Head of ‘Yandoto is hereby assigned to take charge of the affairs of the Emirate.”  SaharaReporters had reported that the Emir conferred the traditional title of Sarkin Fulani on Aliero in a colourful ceremony that took place last Saturday.  The event was attended by the Zamfara State Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Rtd DIG Mamman Tsafe who was the Chief Guest.  Tsafe Local Government Area Sole Administrator, Alhaji Aminu Mudi was also present at the coronation ceremony.  Several bandit group leaders and lieutenants arrived at the venue of the occasion on several motorbikes to celebrate with Aleru during his event.  SaharaReporters further learnt that the decision to give the terrorist a chieftaincy title was aimed at finding lasting peace in the crisis-ravaged Tsafe and Yandoton Daji emirates and other areas of Zamfara and Katsina states, which are regularly attacked by Aleru and his subordinates.  “The denial of Zamfara State Governor to the turbaning of Ado Alieru is shady; in the picture is the Tsafe Local government sole administrator, Alh. Aminu Mudi, who was the special guest of honour at the coronation ceremony, while presenting his speech at the event.  “Also, in the picture is the Zamfara State Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Rtd DIG Mamman Tsafe seated at the coronation ceremony as a chief guest. Therefore, Zamfara State Governor was aware of this coronation,” a security analyst said.  Yandoton Daji is one of the two new emirates created by the Zamfara government in May. It was carved out from the Tsafe Emirate.  The bandit leader was the arrowhead of a deadly raid on Kadisau, a community in the Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State, where about 52 people were killed.  He was declared wanted by the Katsina Police Command in 2019 with a bounty of N5 million on his head.  Deadly attacks have raged across Zamfara state where bandits have thrived.  Agrarian communities in the state have long been terrorised by gangs who raid villages, steal cattle and kidnap residents for ransom.  In 2019, the state government signed a peace agreement with the gunmen. About 15 brand new Hilux vehicles and cash gifts were also given to leaders of different 'repentant' gangs of bandits by the governor in 2020.  But despite all these, communities in the state are still being attacked and residents kidnapped and/or killed. 