The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa'ad Abubakar, has called on Muslims across Nigeria and those on pilgrimage to dedicate special prayers to Allah for quick intervention in Nigeria over the daily rising cases of insecurity, poverty, high cost of living and corruption. Pleading in the name of Allah, the Sultan urged Nigerian muslims to “fervently supplicate to Allah for His intervention and an end to the myriad challenges bedeviling the country” as “It is obvious and very scary if we don't humble ourselves to the Almighty Allah, an end to these orgies seems not in sight if happenings in the country are anything to underscore.”  The Sultan made the call as Muslims observe the 9th of Dhul-Hijjah (Arafat) on Friday with special Juma'ah Prayer as was recommended by the Prophet (PBUH) as part of the Sallah celebration. According to a statement by the Secretary–General of Jama'atu Nasril Islam (JNI), National Headquarters, Kaduna, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, the Sultan noted that the prayers will be more effective at this period when Muslim faithfuls observe “Sa'a (hour) and Arafat– the best day of the year, wherein standing for it, is observed by pilgrims, and Allah, the Most benevolent forgives and answers all supplications on the Arafat day gracefully.” Sultan, who is also the President-General of JNI urges Nigerian Muslims to fast specifically on Friday “as was recommended by the Prophet (PBUH) and to also pray ceaselessly to Allah, the Most High for His quickest intervention. Nigerian pilgrims are also implored to specifically pray for Nigeria and its leaders, while standing for the Arafat.” “It is obvious and very scary if we don't humble ourselves to the Almighty Allah, an end to these orgies seems not insight if happenings in the country are anything to underscore,” he was quoted in the statement. “He implores us all to dedicate special prayers against all the menaces and the hydra-headed calamities (of insecurity, poverty, high cost of living and corruption) occurring in Nigeria. Similarly, with the 2023 general elections fast approaching, we need to also seek Allah's apt intervention for stability, security, peace and development of Nigeria. “Indisputably, as people of faith we MUST submit ourselves to Allah, especially that all efforts geared towards restoration of peace and order seem to defy solutions,” the statement added. He maintained that fervent prayer for peaceful and smooth political transition and an end to the varied socio-economic challenges has become imperative in the country.