A former member of the House of Representatives, Robinson Uwak, has allegedly influenced the police to arrest the father of his estranged wife, Kezia.Uwak is a former member of the House of Representatives who represented Oron, Mbo, Okobo, Ure-Offong/Oruko and Udung-Uko federal constituency of Akwa Ibom State at the 7th Assembly. A source told SaharaReporters that Kezia's father was picked up at his residence in Calabar, the Cross River state capital on Friday evening.“Honorable Robinson just sent policemen to arrest the lady’s father for nothing in Calabar where they live,” a source said.The alleged harassment of Kezia’s family comes amid several allegations of domestic violence levelled against the former lawmaker by his estranged wife. The woman had alleged that Uwak attempted to kill her for trying to leave the marriage.On May 29, she posted on Facebook that the former lawmaker strangled her and attempted to kill her, adding that he also inflicted physical injuries on her mother. She wrote, "Hon. Robinson Uwak strangled me and attempted to kill me when he found out I was trying to leave the marriage and he did this right in the room where my children were asleep. "He kicked my parents out of his house at 2 am after he put a machete to my mom’s neck and kicked her twice to the ground causing her to injure herself and break her phone. "He lied to me that he was not married to his ex-wife anymore- that he was divorced. "He is now threatening to kill me and my parents for me leaving him. I have Pictures, Videos & Audio evidence. I got married to him after he deceived my family and I that he was divorced from his ex-wife. "Stating that his marriage was annulled because it didn’t legally exist- this was a lie. He deceived my family and I into being married to him. I sit here in terrible pain from my head to my toes after I was terribly battered by my so-called “husband” while he accused me of unfounded and blatant lies. "My neck is swollen and hurts- I can’t swallow well- from how he tied my neck with the nape of what I was wearing and used both hands to strangle me telling me he will “kill me and go to jail.” "He used his feet to stomp on my chest with all of his might and I have severe chest pains & aches. He slapped and pounded my skull with his fists so many times- hitting my head hard against the tiles in his room over and over while my children slept in the next room. “On the 27th of May around 8 am, he charged into my room where I sleep with my twins and started to accuse me falsely. "Before I could open my mouth to even understand what was happening, he flung me on the floor and began to strangle me. I was screaming. I was horrified. "He then told me to move to his room- next door- he locked all the windows and doors & commanded me to sit on the floor & then proceeded to tell me that I can never leave the marriage- and break up his home- he said will kill my family and I. He said he is ready to commit murder. He said it doesn’t matter how long it takes, 5-10-15-20 years, that he will find my parents and I and kill us. "He will use N50 million, even N100 million to send kidnappers and killers to end my life and that of my parents. He said I cannot embarrass him maritally a second time. "That he only let his first wife go because she didn’t have kids. But he will kill me before I leave him. And that I cannot have custody of his kids. He said I will always look over my shoulder in this country for the rest of my life. "And that he will leave to the U.S. and pay people here in Nigeria to kill me and my parents. He swore over and over on a hard copy of the Bible that he will kill me & my parents. "He claims he uses the services of the SSS (State Security Service) to track the phones of people in my life against their wills. Please his friends in DSS (Department of State Services) & SSS need to be investigated. He threatens my friends and family at any provocation. "I found out he is still in a divorce tussle with his ex-wife and I began to make moves with my lawyer on how to leave the marriage because it means my marriage to him is void & he’s committing bigamy...” Also on June 4, she alleged that her husband had been sponsoring people to share false stories about her despite having threatened to kill her.However, the lawmaker earlier this week accused the House of Representatives spokesperson, Benjamin Kalu of having an illicit affair with Kezia and being responsible for his broken marriage.According to Uwak, Kalu has refused to allow his (Robinson) family to run smoothly.He also alleged that “despite being a married woman, Kalu continued his illicit affair with her, booking and inviting her to hotels to sleep with her”.He added, “When I confronted my wife about it, she cried and pleaded profusely at a family meeting and I forgave her. “Despite her pleas, she continued with her cheating, which led to the last altercation with me.”However, efforts to reach Uwak on his mobile line were not successful as it was unavailable for hours, up till the time of filing this report. A text message sent to him had also not been delivered at the time of filing the report.