The African Action Congress (AAC) has called on Nigerians to rise against President Muhammadu Buhari's government over its gross incompetence and crass dereliction of duty amid the state of insecurity in the country. The party said the solution to the current tragic situation in the country is a revolution where all oppressed Nigerians would protest against the failed governance system characterised by bad governance, mass corruption, and gross impunity.  The AAC noted this in a statement released through the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Femi Adeyeye, on Wednesday, in which the party reacted to Tuesday’s attack on Kuje Correctional Centre. The party lamented that the attack on the prison facility happened while Nigerians were still mourning the victims of Owo massacre, the Abuja-Kaduna train incident, and many more tragic events. It also noted that scores of Nigerians are still in the captivity of terrorists. The statement read, "It is now crystal clear that the only answer to having lasting peace, justice, and equity is for all oppressed people of Nigeria to rise and smash this failed system that is symptomatic of bad governance, mass corruption, and gross impunity. "Our country space was greeted again with very unfortunate events yesterday. Nigerians have once again been reminded that nowhere is safe. The Buhari regime has failed woefully in all areas. "It has become trite that state institutions are now easily subdued by terrorists. Nigerians are still mourning the Owo massacre, Abuja-Kaduna incident, and many more tragic events with scores still in the captivity of terrorists. “No one takes seriously the shameless statements of the regime's malpublicity secretaries. Action is what is needed! Garba Shehu and his battery of garbage. "Our party, the African Action Congress (AAC) is expressly clear that the solution to the tragic situations in Nigeria is revolution. The only other option is the continuation of the wars we are witnessing. "It is the ruling class that is the cause of the war, we need all youths and the working class to come together and clean the Augean stable in classical clinical mass actions that would advance the #EndSARS experience. The time to do the very needful is Now. "Nigerians must not fold their arms and watch till we all are swept out. We must rise at this time to condemn this act and pressurize failed President Buhari to resign, while we set radical standards for the political, economic growth and development of the country.”