Some court documents have revealed that American R&B star, Robert Kelly, is engaged to one of his alleged victims, Joycelyn Savage. Savage, a 26-year-old woman, allegedly penned a letter to the federal judge, referring to herself as Robert Kelly’s fiancée, begging that Kelly receive a more lenient sentence for his decades-long sexual abuse of women and underage girls and boys.  The documents obtained by online medium, TMZ, read, “I'm writing this letter in support of Robert in advance of his sentencing, so I can explain to the court that I’m not the victim that the government has portrayed me to be.” She continued to call him an “all-around incredible person” and “not the monster that the government has described him to be.” “Robert and I are deeply in love and it breaks my heart that the government has created a narrative that I’m a victim. I’m a grown woman and can speak for myself which is why I wanted to provide this letter to the court.” “He is a great man, with a great heart and deserves to be home with his loved ones who are ready to support him,” she concluded. SaharaReporters had reported R.Kelly was sentenced to 30 years in prison for sexually abusing women, girls and boys, more than 20 years after first facing allegations. Kelly’s conviction last Wednesday was seen as a victory for survivors of sexual violence, particularly those who may hesitate to speak out against abusers, for fear of retribution. In 2019, Savage posted on Instagram that she would tell “my story,” adding in a follow-up post, “‪I have Partnered up with @Patreon where I will post daily chapters of my story. Things I am going to reveal that were sworn not to see the day of light — by NDA. I am risking my life for many others.” In her posts, according to Essence, Savage acknowledged that she was manipulated by Kelly. She discussed meeting Kelly when she was 15 at a concert and later dropping out of college to live with him. She said Kelly would tell her, “Baby girl you are going to be the next Aaliyah.” But her Instagram account could not be found active on Monday.