The African Action Congress (AAC) has urged the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) to mobilise Nigerians massively and protest until the government meets the demands of the striking Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and reopen schools across the country. The party made the charge in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Femi Adeyeye, while expressing its full support for NLC’s planned protest against the ongoing strike by ASUU.  ASUU has been on strike since February 14, 2022, over the federal government’s failure to meet its demands and agreements signed in 2009. The NLC has announced 2-day nationwide protest holding on “Tuesday, July 26, 2022, and Wednesday, July 27, 2022, in all the states of the Federation and Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, adding that “Take-off point is the NLC State Secretariats and the Labour House, Abuja. You are requested to immediately convene the meetings of your SAC to disseminate this information and to fully mobilise workers in the states for this very important protest for good governance,” In its statement on Wednesday, AAC said, “Our party, the African Action Congress seizes this medium to express its total support for the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) protest over the prolonged strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). We consider the call for action long overdue, as no serious country should shut the door to research, learning and innovation for over 5 months. “The Buhari regime has shown a serious level of irresponsibility and infidelity towards the demands of the striking workers and it is proper for students, parents, members of civil society, and workers to join the actions geared towards reopening our citadels of learning. “The African Action Congress (AAC) assures Nigerian students, academic and non-academic workers that there shall be a new dawn in the educational sector, when we get to power, come 2023. Our programs for education are all-encompassing. We have maintained that oil is a lazy man resource. “The most underrated and untapped resources in Nigeria are Nigerians, especially the youthful demography. Among many other programs of actions, we shall invest massively in education, reorder the system of delivery, rejig the curriculum to make it fit for innovations and not just for the services industry. The days of ASUU strikes are numbered. President Buhari can’t give what he does not have.”