Suspected Fulani herdsmen have reportedly killed two people and injured two others in a fresh attack on Mgbuji and Agu-Amede communities in the Isi-Uzo council area of Enugu State. The incident occurred on Friday, a source in the community told SaharaReporters. File Photo
Google SaharaReporters had reported that Fulani militias killed over 16 people, destroyed properties worth millions of naira and displaced over 3,000 residents of 14 farm settlements in Mgbuji community between December 2021 and June 2022.  It reported that the heads of all the security agencies in the state on Friday, June 17, 2022, visited the troubled community and promised to provide adequate security for them having had first-hand information about the situation.  This latest attack came despite security assurances from the state government and Nigerian security agencies.  SaharaReporters can authoritatively report that two weeks after the visits, there is no security personnel in the troubled community. And since the attack by suspected Fulani militias, there have been subsequent attacks and killings of several members of the community without any challenge by security agencies.  A member of the community who gave his name as Chijioke Ogbodo told SaharaReporters on Friday, that the community were now living under the mercy of foreign Fulani militias.  Ogbodo said, "They killed two of our people yesterday (Thursday) between Mgbuji and Agu-Amede. The killings happened at Onu-Mgbede Mgbuji. Two that survived were in the hospital now as we speak. This is still happening after all the promises from the police, Army and DSS (Department of State Services) that they are going to provide adequate security. As I speak to you, there is no single security man in Eha-Amufu.”  "Now, they have expanded their attacks to Agu-Amede community. They are now attacking Mgbuji and Agu-Amede communities simultaneously. We have over 6,000 internally displaced people in Mgbuji community alone and nobody is interested in their welfare," he lamented.  Ogbodo, however, appealed to well-meaning Nigerians to prevail on the security agencies in the state to provide security to the community "otherwise they should tell us that they have an agenda with the foreign Fulani militias to wipe out the community”. “Or could it be that the attacks were part of the Federal Government’s agenda of Islamisation?” He asked. Efforts made by SaharaReporters to reach the spokesperson for the state police command, Daniel Ndukwe, were unsuccessful as he did not answer when our correspondent called him. 