The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, says South-West Security Stakeholders’ Group (SWSSG), comprising the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) and 10 other security groups, under his leadership, will do everything possible to resist any form of attack capable of threatening the region.  Adams made the vow when he visited the Olowo of Owo Kingdom, Oba Ajibade Ogunoye, at his palace in Owo, Ondo State. Gani Adams He warned terrorists or any group that may be planning to attack any part of Yorubaland to have a rethink, noting that the people have the capacity and the will to defend themselves.  SaharaReporters had reported that Islamic terrorists on Sunday, June 5, 2022, invaded St. Francis Catholic Church Owa-Iuwa, Owo, Ondo State and killed 40 worshippers and injured over 120 others. Owo is the hometown of the Ondo state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu.  The Kakanfo of Yorubaland, in a statement issued through his Special Assistant on Media, Mr Kehinde Aderemi, said the visit was part of the fresh move to secure the South-West and forestall a repeat of the Owo attack in the region, Daily Sun reported.  Adams said, “My visit is to show my sympathy to your royal majesty and the Owo people over the attack that led to the death of over 40 worshippers.  “Immediately after the attack, I did a statement condoling Kabiyesi and the people of Owo. I was one of the earlier callers and I spoke with the Kabiyesi, assuring him of my support for the palace and the people of the town in making the town safe for the people.  “Also, about four weeks ago, I wrote a letter informing the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr Antonio Guterres, on the need to prevent the further calamity that is capable of destroying the entire country like what happened in Bosnia.  “The letter was addressed to all international communities and the State Security Departments across the world.  “The reports and the feedback we are getting have been great. However, I consider it imperative to visit Olowo and the people of the town to formally express my sympathy, even as efforts are on to strengthen the security situation in the town.  “This time around, Yoruba are more united and we are not cowards. In Yorubaland, we have not lost any war. Therefore, we are not going to relent or relax until we get rid of terrorists across the South West.”  Responding, the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ogunoye, who appreciated Adams for keeping faith with the struggle to defend the region, blamed the prolonged security challenges across the country on the failing federal system arrangements.  Oba Ogunoye said there was an urgent need for state police arrangements as a panacea for effective security in the country.  He said Owo people would continue to protect their kingdom with whatever they have, adding that the people of the town are prepared to defend themselves against any external aggressors.  “When they attacked us, Aare was among the earliest callers. He gave us his words with prayers and put in place continuous security surveillance arrangements with the Ondo State chapter of the Oodua People’s Congress. This is a good initiative that could enhance the security situation in the town.  “I am also happy that the Yoruba are even more united in the struggle to defend their territory. I can see their determination and it is a positive sign of unity against terrorism.” 