President Muhammadu Buhari has described education as a fundamental tool in driving growth and development in every country. According to the President, his government is doing its best to provide better education for Nigerian Children. Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari. Buhari said this in a statement to celebrate Children’s Day today (Friday), signed by his special adviser, Femi Adesina. He said, “Nigerian children deserve the best and a safe country where they can grow, make friends, interact and travel freely, and emerge as successful leaders in different fields of endeavour. "The President recognises the place of education in the development of every country and is committed to seeing a further significant reduction in the number of out-of-school children. “He acknowledges that while the education of the Nigerian child will remain on the front burner for this government, other issues – healthcare, protection from harm, drugs, cultism, child trafficking and abuse, domestic violence- are equally receiving needed attention from the government. “President Buhari believes that Nigerian children deserve the best and a safe country where they can grow, make friends, interact and travel freely, and emerge as successful leaders in different fields of endeavour.” "With our investments in infrastructure, youth development, education, Information and Communication Technology, Digital Economy, Culture, Arts and Entertainment in the last seven years, I believe we are laying a solid foundation for a better quality of life for future generations in the country,’’ President Buhari added. Meanwhile, Nigerian university lecturers have been on strike since February 14 over demands for improved welfare packages, better working conditions and implementation of the 2009 agreement it had with the Nigerian government. ASUU, had on February 14, announced a warning strike which was prolonged a month after, to allow the government to meet all of its demands. A 12-week extension was announced on May 9. The academics are seeking improved welfare, revitalisation of public universities and academic autonomy among other demands. One of the contentious issues is the non-payment of university revitalisation funds, which amounts to about N1.1 trillion. But the Nigerian Government has said it doesn’t have the money to pay such an amount, citing low oil prices during President Buhari’s administration.