A Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, has granted the embattled governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state, Farah Dagogo, bail. The High Court judge presiding over Dagogo’s case, Justice E. Obile, granted him the bail on the basis of fundamental rights and ex parte application sought by his legal representatives, The PUNCH reports.  Announcing the court’s ruling, Justice Obile ordered the Rivers State Commissioner of Police, CP Friday Eboka, the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal and Investigation Department, the Deputy Superintendent of Police, the state’s Attorney General and Chief Magistrate, Amadi Nna, to release the plaintiff from police detention and restore his personal liberty. Justice Obile further issued an order of interim injunction to the police, the commandant of the Government House, DSP Efeturi Irikefe, the fourth respondent, the state Attorney General, Chief Magistrate A. I. Amadi Nna and all the respondents, restraining them from further instigating, threatening, harassing and invading the personal liberty of Dagogo. Also, Justice Obile in his ruling ordered the respondents to desist from further actions that could obstruct or hinder Dagogo from attending his governorship screening during PDP primaries and any other electoral processes in the state. Speaking shortly after the court proceedings, Dagogo’s lead lawyer, Innocent Ekwe said the police brought a letter from the office of the DCR to the Federal High Court, confirming and verifying the order and warrant which admitted the plaintiff to bail. “That verification has just been done. Our client is now to be released by the Commissioner of Police,” Ekwe said. He explained that he filed an application for his client's bail and it was heard and determined, and the terms of the bail have been fulfilled, leading to the court’s ruling. Dagogo, who is a House of Representatives member representing Degema-Bonny Federal Constituency, was arrested in April after Governor Nyesom Wike declared him wanted. Speaking on the outcome of the court ruling, Barrister Ekwe said that the PDP knows the consequences of not giving Dagogo an opportunity to be screened as a governorship aspirant in the state. He said, “And the fact that he was not screened due to the fact that he was abducted from the venue. We promptly write to the party informing them of the scenario and asking them to give him another fate for him to be screened. “And we know the party will screen him now that he has been given bail because the party knows the consequences of excluding him unlawfully. The people who are pursuing prosecution may wish to continue, but we have filed a preliminary objection challenging the information as incompetent and has been politically motivated.”