Reacting to the killing and burning of Deborah, Professor Ishaq Akintola said: “… In this regard, we also strongly denounce the killing of several Northern Muslims in the South East in the past few months. We frown on the recent burning last week of a truck fully loaded with cows in the South East as well as the killing of many Muslims of South-East origin by their Igbo brothers in the same South East. We note with keen interest that Muslims in the North did not retaliate when these killings were taking place.” Professor Ishaq Akintola is the director, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC). He represents a religious god that went to hell and back. If you had been following his bigoted religious divisive and explosive statements, you’ll agree with my characterization. Consider the following: On 2023 presidential candidates, he said Yoruba Muslims will not vote for Christian candidates from the southwest in 2023.  “As public discourse on Nigerians zeroes in on 2023 presidential election, we see the need for us to reiterate our position on the need for a Yoruba Muslim presidential candidate from southwest.” He claimed that “It has been persecution and stigmatization galore for Yoruba Muslims since independence. They are denied almost all civil liberties. Admission seekers who are Muslims are denied attractive courses in tertiary institutions. It is easier for an elephant to pass through a needle’s eye than for a Yoruba Muslim graduate to secure employment. Yoruba Muslims are marginalized in political appointments.” Akintola claimed that the developer of the collapsed 21-storey building in Lagos rejected an engineer because he’s a Muslim. On the crisis between Traditional Religious Worshippers Association (TRAWSO) and Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, for disrespecting traditional religion, Akintola said: “We note with deep concern that traditionalists in Yorubaland prefer to monopolise Muslim traditional rulers in such a way that the latter pay no attention to Islam and Muslims but concentrate on traditional rites alone.” Akintola failed to provide evidence of allegations of discrimination and marginalization of Yoruba Muslims. Rather, he turns the truth upside down in a most brazen and despicable manner. His allegations lack merit, reasoning, and logic. As a devil’s masquerade, Akintola hides under the cover of MURIC to incite Yoruba Muslims against Yoruba Christians, thereby fomenting religious tension that could trigger religious terrorism. As a jihadist, Akintola spews hatred and paints non-Muslim Yorubas as Muslim haters. As an advocate of Sharia law, Akintola dresses bigotry as a theology. A dangerous time bomb that could go off at any time. As a religious bigot, Akintola is obstinately and intolerantly devoted to fanatical Islamic opinions, biases, and prejudices. Yorubas must reject his intolerance, his fascist tactics, his Maoist brainwashing, his continuous violations of ordinary common sense, and his evident desire to pitch Yoruba Muslims against Yoruba Christians. We reject Akintola’s morbid devotion to jihadism and his MURIC’s army of bigots. bjoluwasanmi@gmail.com 