Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists escaping from Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) operations in Tumbun Rago, Tumbun Dilla and Jamina settlements in the Lake Chad region have abandoned a five-year-old boy, identified as Babagana. According to PM News, Lieutenant Colonel Kamarudeen Adegoke, Chief of Military Public Information Officer, MNJTF disclosed this in a statement issued in N’Djamena on Sunday while briefing newsmen on the ongoing Operation LAKE SANITY launched to curb the menace of terrorism in the Lake Chad Region.  Adegoke said the MNJTF troops from Nigeria and Chad, alongside Operation HADIN KAI, stormed the general area of Tumbun Rago, Tumbun Dilla and Jamina settlements and succeeded in eliminating over 25 terrorists. He said the troops also recovered one AK-47 rifle, one anti-aircraft gun, and hundreds of assorted ammunition. He said, “In their haste to escape, the criminals left their five-year-old child named Babagana. The child in good condition will be handed over to the relevant authority." He added that a member of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) supporting MNJTF operations in the Tumbuns suffered serious injuries during the operations while seven soldiers from Chad and Niger Republic suffered minor injuries. Adegoke said the injured soldiers were being attended to at different military facilities. “MNJTF troops from Nigeria and Chad, alongside Operation HADIN KAI, stormed the general area of Tumbun Rago, Tumbun Dilla and Jamina settlement deep inside the Lake Chad Islands.  “The troops, alongside the follow-up airstrikes by the MNJTF/Operation HADIN KAI, led to the neutralisation of over twenty-five (25) terrorists and the recovery of 1 AK-47 Rifle,1 Anti-Aircraft gun, and hundreds of assorted ammunition. “Also, 1 Gun truck bearing Cameroon Gendarmes Logo loaded with fuel was captured and destroyed, and household items, including uniforms and eleven (11) BH/ ISWAP motorcycles, were seized and burnt. “At the same time, two (2) water-pumping machines were also recovered, and the entire camp was thoroughly burnt. In their haste to escape, the criminals left their five-year-old child named Babagana. The child in good condition will be handed over to the relevant authority," the statement added. 