Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, the 75-year-old former Vice President won the PDP primary by 371 votes. He beat other 13 candidates that included former senate president Bukola Saraki, Governors Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and Aminu Tanbuwal of Sokoto State. Nigeria is a country of devils. The evils perpetrated by Nigerian politicians every day aptly fit the description.  With the ongoing primaries for the 2023 presidential elections, the political devils have taken over the country. One of the tools used by northern political devils is divide and conquer. Divide and conquer, also known as divide and rule, is “a political strategy to gain or retain power by cultivating disunity among potential opponents, often by co-opting some individuals and groups while excluding others.” A legacy handed down by Britain, our former colonial masters, has been successfully used since independence by the northerners to gain and retain power. Wike and Tambuwal are close friends. Wike whose state had refused to pay pensioners since 2015, donated N500 million to Tambuwal’s government over a fire incident that gutted Sokoto market. Wike did this purely for political reasons so northerners could support his presidential ambition. A few hours to the primary, northern elders in a backroom deal, asked Tambuwal to step down for Atiku to ensure Atiku’s victory. The rest is history.  I believe the same scenario will play out during APC’s primary. The northerners in the dying hours to the primary will conscript former president Goodluck Jonathan to run. Once he agreed to run, the northern cabals with monetary and other tempting offers will persuade Jonathan to step down for Ahmad Lawan. Osinbajo and Tinubu will split their votes while the majority of the votes will go to Lawan. Like Atiku, Lawan will emerge as the APC presidential candidate. The contest will be between two Muslim northerners. Whoever wins, it’s going to be a win-win situation for the northerners. And for the next eight or 16 years, Fulanis will be in charge and in control of everything. And with Fulanis in charge, the future of Nigeria is better imagined than described!  Like I said in my previous articles, the person who becomes the next president of Nigeria won’t change Nigeria for the better. Nigeria will sink further into the darkness of error and satanic delusion. The evils of the incoming regime will stand out as distinct from that of Buhari as midday in contrast with midnight. But the good news is that this and other horrific and barbaric events that will follow will further make the already compelling case for Yoruba Nation a more attractive solution to the madness in Nigeria.  bjoluwasanmi@gmail.com