Less than 24 hours to the commencement of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) primaries in Delta State, 25 delegates from the Warri North constituency have alleged that they have been promised N4million each to influence the election outcomes. SaharaReporters learnt that the money was allegedly courtesy a former chairman of the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Commission (DESOPADEC), Godwin Toritseju Ebosa.  It was further gathered that the N100million largesse for the primary election, which is said to be bankrolled by the state governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, is in support of the reelection bid of the incumbent House of Assembly member representing Warri North constituency and deputy minority whip, Martins Alfred. Speaking in confidence with SaharaReporters, one of the delegates who preferred anonymity, said, “The N4million is meant for 25 of us to vote for Hon. Martins Alfred to return to the House. No doubt, Alfred is a failed lawmaker, he's a bench warmer in the Assembly. Since his election he has never sponsored a bill, not even to raise a motion. Since the creation of our constituency, he is the worst ever produced to represent us in the state Assembly. Even if you call Ebosa, he will always deny it, but we are N4million richer. "Alfred is a disappointment. But now, money is involved, many of us will grab the N4million and still vote our conscience for tomorrow’s (Sunday) primary election for the House of Assembly for the Warri North constituency. The money will be given out in dollars.” Another delegate who confirmed the money to be shared said, “Ebosa is a business man and he has money as well and since the governor is solidly behind, I know the reelection of Hon. Martins Alfred might see light. “But take this to the bank, some of us will vote our conscience, we will vote for competency, development, vibrancy and vision. Can you imagine, a state where pensioners are suffering and dying, yet the governor is busy lavishing the state money on frivolous election matters in a bid to have his unpopular candidates installed as the party flag bearers? I can tell you for free, millions of dollars are being wasted away from the state treasury.” Contacted, the former chairman, Delta State Oil Producing Areas Commission (DESOPADEC), Godwin Toritseju Ebosa, said he had no knowledge about such. “If it's the governor that is sponsoring; why don't they call the governor direct, please don't call me for all this rubbish again,” he said.