Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has fixed a new date for the screening of its presidential aspirants for the 2023 general elections. The National Organising Secretary of the party, Suleiman Argungu, announced this on Monday in Abuja.  Argungu said the party will be screening its 28 presidential aspirants who obtained forms on Tuesday, May 24th, and Wednesday, May 25th at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja. The party earlier postponed the screening of its presidential aspirants indefinitely in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Felix Morka, dated Sunday, May 22, 2022. The party stated this in a statement titled ‘Notice of Postponement of APC Presidential Screening Exercise,’ dated May 22, 2022, and signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka. “The Screening Exercise for Presidential Aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) earlier scheduled to be held on Monday, May 23rd, 2022 is hereby postponed. A new date for the exercise will be announced shortly.  “Any inconvenience caused is deeply regretted,” it had said. SaharaReporters had reported how the party earlier postponed the screening exercise from May 14 and 15 to May 23 to allow former President Goodluck Jonathan and others to submit their nomination forms after the deadline.  It was learnt that the party had also told the screening committee that they were not to screen presidential aspirants. A party source had told SaharaReporters that the previous postponement was done to allow Jonathan to submit his nomination and expression of interest forms. The ruling party’s aspirants also include Vice President Yemi Osibanjo; APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu; ex-Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; former Minister of Niger Delta Development, Sen. Godswill Akpabio; former Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; and Jigawa State Governor, Mohammed Badaru. Others include Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi; Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi; and Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. 