Police authorities have accused Ms Precious Chikwendu, the estranged wife of Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, the former Aviation Minister of threatening the lives of witnesses lined up in the alleged attempted murder charge against her.  Chikwendu has been in a legal tussle for the custody of her four children since her marriage hit the rock in 2020.  The marriage had suffered set back over Chikwendu’s allegations of domestic violence and Fani-Kayode’s counterclaim of infidelity.  According to NAN, the allegations against the ex-beauty queen were listed as count 14 in an amended charge against her.  The police said the alleged offence was committed by Chikwendu and Emmanuel Anakan, a co-defendant, last Wednesday within the premises of the Federal High Court in Abuja.  They were alleged to have “criminally threatened” the lives of Bako Maina, Isah Kudaru, and other witnesses to eliminate them by death if they insist on testifying in the case.  The offence was said to be punishable under Section 397 of the Penal Code.  Chikwendu (2nd defendant) and three others were to be re-arraigned before Justice Inyang Ekwo on 14 counts.  Other defendants in the trial include Anakan, Prisca Chikwendu and Osakwe Azubuike as 1st, 3rd and 4th defendants respectively, while others are said to be at large.  In the earlier charges, the police had accused Chikwendu of carrying two kitchen knives and threatening to kill Fani-Kayode, the children, and other occupants of the house at Asokoro on November 24, 2018.  She was also accused of making false allegations on November 24, 2018, with doctored pictures with the intent to deceive members of the public and make them believe that the injuries in the pictures were inflicted on her by her ex-husband.  Besides, Chikwendu was alleged to have “criminally uploaded doctored/photo-shopped pictures” of her biological child, Liam Femi Fani-Kayode, who was four years old, in order to deceive members of the public that the child sustained an injury on his forehead.  According to the charge, the offence is punishable under Section 24 (1) (b) of the Cybercrime (Prohibition, Prevention Etc) Act 2015.  The defendants were further alleged to have committed offences bordering on cybercrime, intimidation to kill the former minister by use of the Internet, through which they said he did not deserve to live.  They were also alleged to have criminally used the internet to send abusive messages with the intent to bully, defame and harass her ex-husband.  They were alleged to have fabricated false evidence by deposing to a series of affidavits that Chief Fani-Kayode physically and sexually assaulted members of his domestic staff in inhuman conduct by causing the same to be electronically published in a national daily.  Chikwendu was also alleged to have, through her Facebook page, referred to Fani-Kayode as “Mr Short Fuse,” on December 7, 2021, among others.  The matter, which was second on Friday’s cause list, was however stalled as the judge directed that the re-arraignment be rescheduled.  The case was fixed for June 29 for Chikwendu and three other defendants to take their plea in the fresh charge.   No fewer than 9, 000 signatories had as of February 4, 2022, signed a petition started by Precious Chikwendu, seeking the custody of her children — Aragorn, Ragnar, Aiden, and Liam.  Chikwendu, a former beauty queen had started the petition to the United Nations as a way to put an end to bullying and oppression from spouses who have more political power over the other.  She alleged that she was physically abused by the former minister when they were still together.   It reads, “This petition would help African women who have been denied a right to their children because they were married to or cohabited with a person of power. This petition would put an end to bullying and oppression from political spouses who have the power and means to oppress and frustrate their partners out of the lives of their growing children who need the love and care of both parents. "Precious Chikwendu, Miss United Nations 2014, cohabited with former minister of aviation of Nigeria, Femi Fani-Kayode who has a history of abusing women. She experienced severe mental and physical abuse for the period of 6 years they were together.  “She was locked up in a mental home where she was injected with substances on the orders of Femi Fani-Kayode to enable him to create a situation to take over her kids. Since Precious walked away on August 2nd 2020, she has not been allowed any form of access to her children."