The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has condemned the gruesome murder of Deborah, a 200-level Home Economics student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education in Sokoto State. The female student was mauled, killed and burnt on Thursday by a mob of Muslim youths who accused her of blasphemy against the Prophet Muhammad. 





The young lady’s killers posted videos of their actions on social media, attracting public outrage and condemnation. While the Sokoto State Police Command, on Thursday, confirmed the arrest of two students suspected to be involved in Deborah's death, the Christian Association of Nigeria has called on the government and security agencies to ensure the prosecution of the culprits. A statement from the General Secretary, Joseph Daramola, reads, “The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) condemns in strong terms the gruesome murder of a Christian, 200 Level student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, Deborah Samuel by some extremist fellow students on alleged blasphemy.“The unlawful and dastardly action of the perpetrators must not only be condemned by all right-thinking people but the security operatives must fish them out, prosecute them as it is expected of them.“It is the failure of the security agencies and the government to rise up to such criminalities in the past that gave birth to terrorists and bandits. And as long as the state fails to bring these beasts and criminals amidst us to justice, so also the society will continue to be their killing fields.”CAN commended the swift reaction of the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa'ad Abubakar who condemned the criminal action and also called on the security agencies to bring the perpetrators to justice. The Christian body noted that it is looking up to Governor Aminu Tambuwal to ensure that the matter is not swept under the carpet. “We also call on all teachers and preachers of religious intolerance, extremism and terrorism to repent before the wrath of God descends on them if the state failed to bring them to justice. They are agents of death amidst us. “We recall the provocative and demeaning advertisement of the Sterling Bank where the bank compared the Resurrection of Jesus Christ to ‘Agege bread’, up till now, nobody was attacked and even the CAN leadership has accepted the apology tendered by its Chief Executive, Abubakar Suleiman.“Killing for any God in the name of blasphemy is ungodly, satanic, foolish, reprehensible and totally unacceptable. This is not a Stone Age and Nigeria is not the Banana Republic. Nigeria remains a non-religious state where no religion is supreme to the other.“We acknowledge and commend the restraint of the Christian students of the College who refused to embrace self-help and reprisals against those who murdered their colleague.“It is our prayers that those vampires in religious garments will not push the country to a religious war. This is why both the government and the security agencies must stop treating them with kid gloves. Enough is enough.“CAN commiserates with the family of Deborah and other bereaved. May God console and comfort them in Jesus’ Name. “Thanks to many other Nigerians who condemned this heinous crime. It was quite an unfortunate development in 21st century Nigeria."