Abbas Umar Masanawa, Managing Director of the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc who picked the N50million All Progressives Congress governorship nomination and expression of interest forms, has finally resigned. SaharaReporters had last week reported that Masanawa who is seeking to succeed the Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, in 2023 refused to resign despite picking the N50million APC forms ahead of the primaries for the 2023 election. Abbas Umar Masanawa, Managing Director of the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting “The man that mints the naira note has come out to say he is a member of the APC and also declared to run for governor. The Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc actually prints some of our election materials. He is from Katsina, he has refused to resign just like his boss at the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele,” a source had told SaharaReporters. In addition to printing the banknotes and the postal orders of Nigeria, the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc also prints some electoral materials for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The company, also referred to as The MINT, was established in 1963 by the Nigerian government in partnership with De La Rue of the UK and is under the Central Bank of Nigeria. It began full operation in 1965, producing currency notes and coins for the CBN as well as a wide range of security documents for the government, commercial banks, and blue-chip companies, among others.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Masanawa, Managing Director Of Nigerian Company In Charge Of Printing Election Materials Picks APC Governorship Nomination Form, Refuses To Resign 
0 Comments
4 Days Ago However, speaking with journalists in Abuja on Monday, Masanawa said he had resigned. “Absolutely, I have abided completely with the presidential directive. And I’ve resigned my appointment as the Managing Director, and Chief Executive of the Nigeria Security, Printing and Minting. I sent in my resignation through the chairman of the board, who also happens to be the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria,” he said. 