Terrorists, locally described as bandits, have sacked no fewer than 10,000 people in the last three years in about 42 communities of Kebbi State. According to PRNigeria, the displaced persons are victims of “gruesome” attacks launched by bandits, at communities within the Chonoko axis in Danko/Wasagu Local Government Area of the state. File photo used to illustrate story. The terrorists killed over 200 villagers, and sacked 42 communities, in the assaults they started perpetrating in 2019. The communities are; Dan Kade, Warkata, Kurgiye, Ragam I, II & III, ‘Yar Kuka, Shangel, Tungan Dangula, Kahalmo I & II, Kadebo, Ched-Kubu, Yababa, Gimi, Ganyale I, II & III, Silabi and Digoga. The long list also include; Bankunatare, Bawada, Zagami, Turame, Gyado, Tungan Kwando, Ktare, Sebzama I, II & III, Dhilo and Duru. Others are; Tudun Wada, Digwengwe, Gaya, Saaki, ‘Yar Buga, Dilanko, Zuttu and Irgaa. During a visit by PRNigeria to the communities, it was learnt that the terrorists had since been occupying the deserted houses of their victims, with impunity. While narrating his ordeal, a 70-year-old Mai Unguwa Maizuwa who was sacked from Zagami village stated that the bandits had been carrying out a series of attacks on their community for three years in a row, since 2019. The bandits, he said, over time rustled all their cattle in the community and equally plundered their belongings, killed many people and recently sacked the entire village. Apart from that, Maizuwa said that other items including many bags of cement and some monies he saved for business, about to N997,000 naira, were lost during the invasion. Maizuwa, who has 20 children, is currently living in agony in an overcrowded IDP camp in Chonoko town. Another victim who lost his son to one of the incidents at Kadebo village, Musa Sarkin Makada, explained how life has been difficult for them since their community was ransacked. It was learnt that since the attacks were carried out, his community was deserted and turned into a ghost town as women, children, the elderly and even the disabled who could not run were evacuated to Chonoko town for safety.Meanwhile, in their responses to this report, NEMA and Refugees Commission promised to address the plights of the IDPs as soon as possible while a spokesperson of ICRC said that due to their active humanitarian engagements in North-East and North-Central, they are yet to focus on the North-West.