The Lagos State Police Command has commenced an investigation into the death of an Indian national, Devendra Singh, who allegedly committed suicide in the Ilupeju area of Lagos State.  According to Punch, the 42-year-old man was a field worker at the Agro Nigeria Limited, in the Ikeja area of the state.  Singh's driver, the report noted, had conveyed him to his office on Friday. However, things took another turn when Singh stayed in the office beyond the usual closing hour.  His driver was said to have called him on the phone number several times without any response after which he peeped through the window, only to see the lifeless body of his boss dangling from a rope.  A source told the newspaper, “The driver called his colleagues around 7.30 pm saying he brought his boss to the office in the morning and that his boss was not out and that he had tried calling him and he did not pick up his calls. His colleagues then informed their company’s chief security officer.  “A few minutes later, the driver peeped through the window of the office and saw that his boss had hanged himself on the iron hook used in holding a ceiling fan. Some of his colleagues, who rushed down to the place, also confirmed seeing the Indian man’s lifeless body dangling from the rope.  “So, they reported back to their CSO, who advised them to report to the police. It was the police that came to the private office to forcefully open the door and met his corpse in that same position.  “He locked himself inside the office and when the police managed to open the place, they saw the side table he climbed to hang himself and afterwards, he pushed it. Singh didn’t write any suicide note.”  After the police recovered Singh’s corpse on Friday, his remains were deposited in the mortuary at the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, Lagos, for an autopsy.  The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said the state Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, had ordered an investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding Singh’s death.  He added, “Investigation has begun to ascertain if it is truly suicide or murder/manslaughter packaged as suicide.”