No fewer than six multi-million naira mansions were on Tuesday demolished by the Ogun State Planning and Development Permit Authority, Oke Ilewo, Abeokuta. The houses located at Itori Mogon Village, according to sources, were demolished without prior notice to any of the owners by the state government.  One of the sources told SaharaReporters that the Ogun State government had allocated a portion of land at Itori Mogon village for estate development. However, the government later sold the initiative to a private company which has moved to acquire more landed properties not covered in the initial plan.” The company was said to have taken interest in areas where houses were being built and developed. This, according to him, resulted in the demolition of houses said to be worth about N50 million each. He said, “There are about six houses that were demolished in the area. There is a portion of the file of the land that is for Estate Development. It has been on since the Otunba Gbenga Daniel's era. After Daniel, Governor Ibikunle Amosun, they didn't do anything about it, it is called E-crest Estate. "I think the government has sold that estate to a private company and they are now looking at acquiring more lands to join what they have. This is the first and major reason they are demolishing houses. In the private initiative, we learnt that they were interested in areas where people are building houses.  “The houses that were pulled down are mansions. Now because they are looking for a way to annex that part of the land, they changed the village extension which the government approved but they are yet to gazette it. “I think we have a report to that effect, if it is gazetted, they might not have any reason to come back and do whatever but it is a part of village extension so they should leave that out of whatever they want to acquire. “But now all of a sudden, they just came yesterday (Tuesday) and started demolishing the building. They also demolished the village hall. It was sited on land that had been given to a golf club and it does not fall under government acquisition, they demolished it. “This is the situation; all of the affected people have completed these people have spent more than N40 million. I don't know what their primary interest is, they came to demolish without any notice, without meeting with them, without taking them to court and these people that built these houses are from this village. The owners of these houses are devastated, they don't know what to do.”  Also speaking, the Baale 2nd in Council of the village, Osho stated, “On the issue of village extension, this issue had been on for a while to get an extension but during the Gbenga Daniel tenure, we were given village extension. “When Amosun came, he revoked it and we have been taking steps. We wrote letters and all till he left. When Dapo Abiodun became governor, we approached him, he said his government was not for the demolition of houses, that's why we voted him in. “When he became governor, we started taking steps to get village extensions. Our children who were living in the city because Amosun's government demolished their houses, we called them back home to bring growth and development to this area. “They came and we gave them lands and they started building modern houses. A golf club went behind us to do a C/O. “After that, the railway was constructed. We had just a small piece of land to ourselves. We tried developing this area little by little and now, some houses are worth N50 million. “Please we are pleading with Governor Dapo Abiodun to put a stop to this unfair treatment of our people.”