Palpable fear has enveloped Maiduguri town, Borno State, as some irate youths, in their hundreds trooped to the streets to express their displeasure over an alleged blasphemous statement by a lady, identified as Naomi Goni. A security alert seen by SaharaReporters on Monday stated that the religious extremists had taken over some parts of Maiduguri, threatening to take action if the Borno State Government failed to prosecute Naomi.  “Protest ongoing in Maiduguri over Naomi; reports available indicate that protesters have moved from the Nigerian Army, 7 Division bypass to Gubio Camp. Advisory: Avoid 7 Division bypass and Gubio Camp for now,” the alert read. SaharaReporters had reported on Saturday that one Abdulmajid Tanko Izge who claimed to be the President of a group, Borno Youth Support, was leading the threats to kill the young woman. Writing partly in Hausa, Tanko Izge had said, “A message to Government of Borno State. Akwai wata yarinya me suna Naomi Goni wanda tayi batanci ga manzo Allah wanda hakan a musulunci kisa ne hukunci Ko da soho ne koda musulmi ne ya kafurta. Dan haka muna kira ga gwamnatin Borno tayi gaggawan daukan mataki inhar ba haka ba kuma mu musulmai baza muyi bacci ba kuma zamu dauka da kanmu “(There is a girl named Naomi Goni who insulted the Messenger of Allah (saw) and in Islam it is a death sentence even if it is a Muslim. We therefore call on the Borno State Government to take immediate action or else we Muslims will not sleep and we will take action).” He added, “Naomi you must face the consequences. We will continue raising our voice until action is taken. #Findnaomigoni.” “A Gaskiya Tura yakai Bango A gari Irin Borno wata Ta Zage ma aiki Amma gwamnati Bawani feed Back. Zuciyana yana Tapasa I will surely come for protest! (In fact, the government has not yet commented on the situation. My heart is pounding, I will surely come for protest).” A check on Facebook also showed some Northerners calling for her death. A security source had told SaharaReporters on Saturday that Naomi had been taken into custody by the police. “She’s currently under detention and denied making the post; she said her account was hacked after she gave birth last year. I don’t think she will be released soon so she won’t be killed. I heard some people are also planning to attack her father’s house here in Maiduguri,” the source had told SaharaReporters. The latest by the Borno extremists comes while the country has yet to resolve the gruesome murder of a 200-level Shehu Shagari College of Education student in Sokoto State, Deborah Samuel, last Thursday by a Muslim mob which comprised of her classmates. The incident has continued to attract nationwide condemnation and the police arrested two suspects – although a protest by some Muslim youths over the arrest on Saturday turned violent in the state. The mayhem had forced Governor Aminu Tambuwal to impose a 24-hour curfew.