The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has condemned the brutal killing of Harira Jubril, the pregnant woman who was killed by unknown gunmen alongside her four children in Anambra State.  SaharaReporters had reported how gunmen murdered the woman and her kids at the Isulo, Orumba North Local Government Area of the state.  Reacting, CAN in a statement issued by Adebayo Oladeji, Special Assistant to the association’s President, Rev Samson Ayokunle, called for justice for the family.  The Association also urged security agencies to immediately launch an investigation into the matter, and fish out those responsible for the wicked act in order to stop the senseless killings in the country. “This criminality is totally unacceptable, unjustifiable and reprehensible to CAN and all right-thinking people. We call on the security operatives to wake up to their responsibilities. The criminals are now operating with impunity while those who are expected to stop or apprehend them appear powerless. “This cannot be the dream country of those who fought for her independence from the colonial masters.”  CAN lamented the spate of insecurity in the country, stating that nowhere is safe again in the country as killers, bandits, terrorists and kidnappers are on the rampage in every part of the country. It added that “all the government is able to do is to issue periodic statements condemning them without any decisive action to bring culprits” to justice. The Christian body further warned the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to put an end to the criminal activities done “in the pretext of fighting for independence” in the region. It said, “Are they fighting for a country for the dead or the living? They should know that their criminalities are not helping the case of their leader, Nnamdi Kanu. “They should not turn the Southeast to a ‘No Man's Land’ in the interest of the founding fathers of this country who hailed from the zone. Their actions are not only giving the Ndigbo a bad name but they are creating an atmosphere for ethnoreligious wars. Will a reasonable group be committing crimes like this?”  CAN added, “We call on the political elites, religious leaders and the traditional rulers of Ndigbo extraction to prevail on the violent groups in the Eastern part of the country to stop needless bloodshed and tension they are causing for economic prosperity and well-being of the region.  “CAN commiserates with all the bereaved of the senseless killings especially the immediate family of lady Fatima and the recently murdered Honourable member of Anambra State House to Assembly, Okechukwu Okoye. May God console and comfort them as He pours healing balm on their wounds in Jesus’ name.” 