Former Aviation Minister in the First Republic, Mbazulike Amaechi, has pleaded with armed groups to withdraw the sit-at-home order declared on May 5 and 6 in the region over the planned two-day visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Ebonyi State. Governor David Umahi had in a statement on Tuesday said President Buhari would be in the state for two days: Thursday and Friday.  However, a military source said gunmen who took over some towns in Abia, Imo and Anambra states on Wednesday evening, issued a sit-at-home for the two days, threatening to deal with anyone caught disobeying the order. "Gunmen were seen shooting in some streets of Aba in Abia and in Imo and Anambra announcing to residents that there will be sit-at-home on Thursday and Friday when President Buhari is to visit Ebonyi State and that they must observe it throughout the South-East," the source said. The gunmen called on President Buhari to immediately release the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu from detention. Reacting to the threat, Amaechi had pleaded with the unknown gunmen to withdraw the threat and avoid actions that would embarrass Ndigbo before President Buhari. He also noted that the planned visit of the President would offer an opportunity for Igbo elders to find solutions to the insecurity in the region and secure the release of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra. He said, "I read on social media that a militant group has issued a statement against the coming of the President to the Southeast. Please I want to appeal to whosoever, or group, behind the statement to please withdraw that threat. "Despite my old age plus the aching pains all over my body, I am almost in a wheelchair, yet I am highly committed to restoring peace in Igboland. I will meet the President along with some Igbo leaders and elders about the security of our region, which is interwoven in the continued detention of Nnamdi Kanu. "We are going to discuss these with him. So, anything that would embarrass us or the President. Would make things difficult for us. And anybody who is moving against our meeting with the President is not pursuing the genuine interest of Nnamdi Kanu and the overall interest of Igboland. "So, I appeal to them not to do anything that would embarrass Southeast because we are going to discuss the insecurity and Nnamdi Kanu's case.”