The Nigeria Police Force has promised to go after owners of dogs caught having sexual intercourse with girls, women and men. This was made known by the Force Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, who described it as an unnatural offence.  Adejobi, in a brief statement, said bestiality is a crime punishable under the law and thus condemned. He further vowed that the police would apprehend the woman in the viral video having sex with a dog and other men who have been involved in similar crimes.  The statement reads, “Unnatural offences: we will extend our search, investigation and punishment to the owners of the dogs caught in the act of having sexual intercourse with ladies or being used for similar offences. “They also have questions to answer. The offence is punishable under the law and thus condemned. We will soon apprehend the lady and others like her including the men, who have been involved in this criminal and barbaric act.” There have been recent reports about Nigerian women sleeping with animals in Dubai, UAE and Lekki, Lagos for money after a video went viral showing a young woman having sexual intercourse with a dog. The video was said to be recorded in Nigeria but the exact location could not be immediately verified. Meanwhile, a light-skinned lady in a trending video claimed she was paid a lump sum to sleep with the dog. She said, although she had intercourse with the dog, she did not get infected with any disease, and she is enjoying the money she earned from the practice. “What is the big deal there? I only slept with a dog, I didn’t kill somebody. You, in your life, you have done worse and besides, have you seen N1.7million before? “As if it’s a big deal. And mind you I’m not infected or anything. Stop dying on the matter, I’m enjoying the money,” she said. However, after some days, she made another video claiming her comments were only a joke. She said, “Guys I was just catching cruise. I didn’t sleep with any dog. My boyfriend just broke up with me; help me to beg my boyfriend. I’m sorry for the video I made, it was purely cruise. “I don’t advise someone to be with animals. It was just a prank video, just cruise; you guys know Nigerians and cruise. I apologise to the public. Please take my apology."