An Islamic group, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), has urged Muslims in the country to get ready to cast their votes in the coming 2023 general elections.MURIC stated this in its Sallah message issued on Sunday, 1st May, and obtained by SaharaReporters. The group spoke through its head in Sokoto State, Barrister Muhammad Mansur Aliyu.The statement reads, “Nigerian Muslims will join billions of their brethren in celebrating the end of the 1443 (2022) Ramadan season on Monday, 2nd May, 2022. We felicitate with President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmed Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila.“Barrister Muhammad Mansur Aliyu also paid homage to the leader of all Nigerian Muslims, the Sultan of Sokoto.”  He said, “We also congratulate the leader of all Nigerian Muslims, the Sultan of Sokoto and President-General, Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji (Dr.) Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, on the occasion of this year’s Id al-Fitr.“MURIC reminds Nigerian Muslims of their civic responsibility of participating in all aspects of political activities in the country particularly as we prepare for the 2023 general elections. We lay emphasis on the need for every Muslim to collect his or her voter card in order to be eligible for voting. No amount of sacrifice is too much for this important civic duty.“Muslims must not shun politics if they want to be liberated from the current spate of stigmatisation, marginalisation and impoverishment. We warn that Muslims who fail to obtain their voters’ cards have voted for bad rulers and Muslim haters whose main preoccupation is to persecute and oppress Muslims.“Apart from obtaining their voter cards, Muslims must ensure that they participate in all political activities which will take place between now and the election period, including waiting patiently to cast their votes on election day.”Barrister Muhammad Mansur Aliyu also had a word for South-West Muslims.“Our brothers in the South who are facing persecution on a daily basis must allow their number to count by ensuring that they obtain their voter cards. Muslims constitute the majority in a place like the South West but unfortunately, they are still facing oppression today because they have not been leveraging on their majority status.“The opportunity has now come. Go all out and get your voter card. Your voter card is your weapon of liberation. A majority population that fails to vote is, technically speaking, a minority. We, therefore, urge you to spare no efforts in getting your voter cards in readiness for the 2023 general elections. “We are looking forward to an election that will reveal the true picture in the region. A majority of people that have been turned into a minority due to their apathy for politics must wake up from their deep slumber. We must stop the stereotyping, the segregation, the religious apartheid and the hijab paranoia.“We must stop the practice of denying jobs to qualified Muslims and their political marginalisation. The time to do it is now. Political power will change the narrative and the popular vote is the only legitimate tool for obtaining political power in a true democracy. Your vote shall make you free.”