The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said that terrorists from Northern Nigeria might have followed the family of the pregnant Hausa woman killed with her four children in Anambra State from the North to state.  The outlawed group which was accused of being behind the killing and other criminal activities going on in the Southeast region said the pregnant woman and her children were not killed by its members or its security network codenamed Eastern Security Network (ESN).  IPOB said this in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful. The separatist group said that terrorists were imported into the Southeast to commit the ongoing crimes in an attempt to demonise the group and discredit their struggle.  The statement said, “We the global family and movement of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu wish to state unequivocally that we have no hands in the killing of Hausa woman and her children in Agulu, Anambra State. “We strongly condemn that abominable act. In Igbo land, it's an abomination to kill a pregnant woman. The perpetrators of this heinous crime are certainly not IPOB and could never have been IPOB.  “We have always said it that terrorists were imported into Biafra land to commit the ongoing atrocities all in an attempt to discredict our struggle, demonise IPOB and proscribe it then lobby and bribe Britain to tag us a terror group with the hope to stop our match to freedom but the doubters who already have a predetermined belief will not listen,” part of the statement read.  IPOB noted that the husband of the murdered Hausa woman had earlier said that he ran away from his home state of Adamawa because of terrorists, hence, “Fulani people decided to kill the woman and her children and blame it on IPOB so that Hausa people can help them start killing Igbo people living in the North because they know they can't do it again.”  “Those involved in the barbarity of killing the Hausa woman and children in Agulu should wait for the repercussions of the evil they committed against the innocent woman and children. The criminals behind this barbarity should be prepared to pay for their heinous crime,” it added. 