A petition to remove actress Amber Heard from the Aquaman sequel has been signed by more than 3 million people, becoming one of the most signed petitions ever to feature on Change.org.  The online petition to DC Warner Bros (Studio) and DC Entertainment was started by Jeanne Larson.  It calls on Warner Bros and DC Entertainment to eliminate Heard from Aquaman and the the Lost Kingdom, which is due for release on March 17, 2023.  Johnny Depp's defamation trial against his former wife is ongoing, with allegations emerging that Heard was violent towards Depp during their marriage. Director James Wan in January announced on Instagram that filming of Aquaman and the the Lost Kingdom had come to an end. “And finally, finally, finally picture wrap on the actual last day of #Aquaman2."  The petition says," Amber Heard has been exposed as a domestic abuser by Johnny Depp. In his $50 million lawsuit, Johnny Depp describes many incidents of domestic abuse that he suffered at the hands of his (then) wife Amber Heard, including one incident where she punched him twice in the face and another where she shattered his finger with a vodka bottle, and his finger had to be surgically reattached. He will bear the scar from that for the rest of his life.  "Also, Amber Heard was arrested in 2009 for abusing a former domestic partner, Tasya Van Ree, demonstrating a repeated pattern of abuse by Amber Heard.  "Since Heard's divorce from Johnny Depp, she has systematically crusaded to ruin Depp in Hollywood, repeating multiple accounts of fake incidents in which she had actually abused Johnny Depp, but lied and created false accounts of him being the abuser. About the incident during which she shattered the bones in Johnny Depp's finger and nearly severed it, causing Depp to require surgery to reattach and repair it, Heard presented a false story claiming that he cut off his finger himself, dipped it in paint and scrawled obscenities all over the walls.  "Likewise, Heard recounts fabricated incidents of Johnny Depp hitting her in the face when she had, in fact, punched him. Though staff and neighbors in the building where she lived reported seeing no marks on her face in the hours and days after she says Johnny Depp hit her, yet she appeared in court six (6) days later with bruises on her face, asking for a temporary restraining order, which was granted. Photos of Heard from the very next day show her full face, without makeup, and not a single bruise.  "As Amber Heard is a known and proven domestic abuser, Warner Brothers and DC Entertainment should and must remove Heard from their Aquaman 2 film project. They must not ignore the suffering of Heard's victims, and must not glamorize a domestic abuser.  "Men are victims of domestic abuse, just like women. This must be recognized, and action must be taken to prevent a known abuser from being celebrated within the entertainment industry.  "Do the right thing. Remove Amber Heard from Aqua man 2."   Depp had said that days after Heard published an op-ed piece in The Washington Post claiming to be a victim of domestic abuse, he was dropped from the sixth instalment of Pirates of the Caribbean, despite being a leading character in the franchise —Captain Jack Sparrow.  "Two years had gone by of constant worldwide talk about me being this wife-beater. So I'm sure that Disney was trying to cut ties to be safe. The #MeToo movement was in full swing at that point,” Depp said on the stand.  He also said he would not be returning to Pirates of The Caribbean again, even if offered a chance to do so.  In November 2020, at the request of Warner Bros, the actor was also forced to step down from his role as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise.