The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP) and former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, has decried the retrogression of the country, saying that those elected to manage her resources have abandoned the national currency and are living in opulence and like kings. Obi, who stated this in his acceptance speech after emerging the winner of the LP presidential primary election, held on Monday in Asaba, Delta State, said he would return Nigeria to Nigerians from the forces of bad leadership and retrogression.  In the acceptance speech tagged "Let Us Return Nigeria to Their Rightful Owners", Obi said that the tasks ahead were great and seemingly insurmountable, but noted that "Our battle cry shall remain: get your PVC and become part of this great liberation.” Obi, while thanking Nigerians; especially members of the Labour Party for believing in him to fly Labour flag in the forthcoming National election to choose the President of Nigeria, said "What you are doing today is a patriotic duty towards seeking the desired political emancipation of our dear country, which stands wounded by many years of cumulative leadership failure." “Painfully, our current dysfunctional system rewards unearned income and conspicuous consumption; allows university lecturers to remain on strike for months; keep our youths at home; and owe pensioners, who gave their patriotic sweat and their youthful energy to serve this country. “The despicable contrast is that those responsible for the mess – those elected to take care of them – have abandoned the national currency and are living in opulence and like kings, spend dollars to buy delegates as well as houses all over the world. Meanwhile, they owe most workers, lecturers and retirees. “Yes, our country stands hijacked by forces of retrogression. We are almost zero in all indices of development. As a result, our future, especially those of the youth and generations unborn is in ruins. We have become a laughing stock among other nations, including African countries where we were once revered. “As a party that represents the workers and masses of this great nation, we are people organised and working for our economic rebirth. As I am nominated today, I humbly proclaim that the journey towards the emancipation of the country has begun. “I note with humility that the journey is going to be a collective one that will certainly require the cooperation of critical stakeholders in our country, especially the youth, whose future has been thoroughly degraded. "I therefore thank all of you and call for your sustained support towards returning Nigeria to Nigerians from forces of bad leadership and retrogression. Such a noble tasks brooks no conscientious objectors," he said.