A former Personal Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Digital and New Media, Bashir Ahmad says many supporters of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan are ignorant of his political activities ahead of the 2023 general election. Bashir was reacting to the backlash that followed his Twitter post on Tuesday, announcing the defection of the former President from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Bashir Ahmad “When I shared the news of former President Jonathan joining our party, his uninformed supporters insulted me saying that can never happen even in the wildest dream. They should know that we know something they don’t know and not everything plan and execute on social media,” he posted on his verified Twitter handle on Thursday. On May 9, Jonathan had rejected presidential expression of interest and nomination forms bought for him by people, described as nomadic Fulani pastoralists and Almajiri communities. He was quoted as saying that it was an insult for people to buy the form for him without his consent. However, a dependable source in Jonathan’s camp, who pleaded anonymity said that the former president had indeed, joined the APC formally, having registered at his Otuoke Ward in Bayelsa. However, a source told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) political correspondent late on Wednesday that some influential African leaders had called Jonathan earlier on Monday to advise him “to contest the election in the interest of Nigeria. “At least three top African leaders called the former president on the matter. They all urged him to run. “One of them specifically told him that it didn’t make sense travelling all over Africa settling disputes only to shy away from leadership responsibility in his home country. “Another reminded him of the implication of failing to put the experiences he garnered as a former Nigerian president and as a continental statesman to good use,” the source had added but did not mention the names of the African leaders.