The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, is currently at the Presidential Villa where he is being asked to explain some discrepancies regarding his political moves and his claims. It was learnt that the Presidency would ask Emefiele to resign as head of the apex bank of his political interest, as he had told President Muhammadu Buhari that he had no political ambition.  Emefiele is a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), and eyeing the Presidency in 2023. SaharaReporters earlier reported that Emefiele had abruptly cancelled his meeting with executive members and top management staff members of the apex bank after he was summoned to the Presidential Villa in Abuja. SaharaReporters gathered that Emefiele had initially refused to attend a farewell meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. The meeting follows the President’s recent directive to all ministers and political appointees contesting for various elective positions to resign from their appointments on or before Monday, May 16, 2022. SaharaReporters also exclusively reported that Justice DC Maidoh of a Delta State High Court, Kwale Division had granted an order restraining the Board of Central Bank of Nigeria and Independent National Electoral Commission from stopping Emiefele from seeking an elective post. The application was filed on May 5, 2022, and the judgement was granted on Thursday, May 12, SaharaReporters learnt.  Armed with the court papers, Emefiele had gleefully taken them to President Buhari on Thursday after which he stated that Nigerians would die of a heart attack. Reacting to his controversial presidential ambition which has seen many groups and notable Nigerians call for his resignation to preserve the sanctity of the treasury and national economy on Thursday, Emefiele boasted that he was having fun and cared less about what people had to say. “There is no news now, but there will be news. You heard me, I said there is no news but there will be news.” But when told that Nigerians were anxious about his position, he said: “Let them have a heart attack. It’s good to have a heart attack. I am having a lot of fun.” However, sources told SaharaReporters that Emefiele was summoned to explain some discrepancies as he had also told Buhari that he had no political ambition. “The CBN governor is at the Presidential Villa; he submitted a letter yesterday (Thursday) that he has no political ambition. “They will ask him to resign because he is an interested party already,” the source said. When asked what Buhari’s response was when the CBN governor said he did not have any political ambition, the source noted, “Buhari did not respond plus it is true that he obtained a court order, which was served on the CBN board and also taken to Buhari. “When Buhari didn’t say anything, he had sent another letter to say he was never interested. But he is now at the Villa where he is being asked to explain these discrepancies.”