The immediate past chairman of the Delta State internal revenue board, Joel-Onowakpo Thomas, has emerged as the state's South senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming 2023 general elections.The ex-internal revenue board boss was returned unopposed Sunday in Oleh, headquarters of Isoko South Local Government Area of the state at the APC Delta South senatorial primary election held Sunday and supervised by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Chairman of the electoral panel, John Ebireri, who declared the results, said there were 360 ad-hoc delegates and that the former coordinator of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), for Delta, Edo and Rivers states, Joel-Onowakpo won with 285 votes with 75 invalid votes.In his speech after his emergence, Joel-Onowakpo commended and thanked supporters, leaders and members of the party for the confidence reposed in him. He appealed for support from all and sundry to coast to victory in the 2023 general elections.He said, "I am very excited about this victory, I want to thank the leadership of the party, the Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, other aspirants and ad-hoc delegates from the eight local government areas who came to affirm my candidature. "Delta South senatorial district should put their hands on deck to deliver the party come 2023 general elections. There will be marked differences in the way legislative duties will be done in the National Assembly as soon as I step into the red chamber. My tenure will experience a better representation. There are no factions in APC in Delta state. "Another thing I want to do together with my colleagues at the National Assembly if voted into power is that we will ensure that there are sustainable ways to assist the state government to reduce poverty in their environment. Today, Delta state APC is more united than ever and speaking with one voice. Today APC is more united than ever. The APC we have today is poised to win elections and it is hungry for power and success. So if anybody is telling you today that we are not united, if you had not asked me today in public, I would say let it be like that so that we will surprise them. We are very united and we are going to win this election by God’s grace. APC is the only party to beat come 2023. "The primary health care services needs to be addressed because we have come to realise that the things that kill Nigerians and take them out of the country are little things; high blood pressure, malaria and the rest of them. So along with my colleagues, if voted into power, we will be able to manage those problems and see that those ailments are tackled at the root. The greatest thing that can happen to any man is poverty and once there is poverty, this can lead to poverty of the mind and once there is poverty of the mind there is nothing you can do to correct the human race."That needs to be addressed in a sustainable way. The current President is doing so well to reduce it, but we need to find a sustainable way of doing it so that we will know that it’s established like every other thing. I am someone with wide experience in governance, I am someone with experience in both private and public service and I will bring in all these experiences to bear in the National Assembly together with my other colleagues."