The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has vowed to wipe off all the armed criminals and their sponsors who have been terrorising the region, killing people and destroying properties. The IPOB on Wednesday said the days of the criminals are numbered, while vowing to destroy the rampaging gunmen in Abia, Anambra states and the entire South-East region.  The group’s Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, in a statement, named some prominent personalities in the region as the alleged sponsors of the killings and criminalities going on in the region. “Those our intelligence unit uncovered sponsoring these criminals are Chief Charles Ogbonna (Evuluogu Ibeku), RT. Hon. Ude Uko Chukwu and Chief Chimedum Orji Ikuku, the son of the T. A Orji (former Governor of Abia State),” he stated. In particular, the IPOB spokesperson accused Theodore Orji’s son of sponsoring the establishment of a fake Eastern Security Network (ESN) who have been kidnapping and killing people and enforcing the sit-at-home order. “Anyone who knows these people whose names are mentioned above should advise them to retrace their steps because if they continue on this evil path, they shall regret their actions. IPOB will not warn them or mention their names again. Soon these monsters they created will turn their attention to them,” Powerful warned. According to him, IPOB has embarked on uprooting all cultist members and hoodlums in Abia state and will extend the same action against cultists in Anambra State and the entire region. “It is unacceptable to us for people destroying our region and claiming they are IPOB or ESN operatives, while in reality they are not.” The group which is agitating for self-governance said its members cannot attack or kill anybody as that is not their quest. “Anybody who is associating with and who knows these criminal groups in the region must inform them that IPOB is coming to visit them and their evil sponsors and they should therefore be prepared for what is coming after them soon. We will not allow that nonsense to continue anymore in our region. Those sponsors across the region, your days are numbered,” Powerful reiterated.