Human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, has asked Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, to resign from office. The presidential aspirant on the platform of the African Action Congress (AAC) was reacting to President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that all members of his cabinet seeking elective office must resign on or before May 16. 

Omoyele Sowore
BBC


Though the directive excludes the Vice President because he is an elected member of the cabinet, Sowore asked him to resign as well so that there would be a level playing field for all aspirants. “It is good that mannequin @Mbuhari has asked his lacklustre ministers contesting elections to resign, but it is also fair + ethical and I ask that Chief Coward  @ProfOsinbajo MUST resign as well so that there is a level playing field for all aspirants,” he tweeted. “As for @MBuhari my position sacrosanct, ‪#BuhariMustGo @Mbuhari is good for nothing! ‪#WeCantContinueLikeThis.” Buhari had earlier in the day directed that all members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) running for elective offices to submit their letters of resignation on or before Monday the 16th of May, 2022. Among those affected are Ministers of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi; Labour and Productivity, Chris Nigige; Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu and State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva who have all joined the presidential race on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Others are Attorney General of the Federation, Mallam Abubakar Malami who has declared interested in the governorship position in his home state of Kebbi. Running for the governorship position in Abia State is the Minister of State Mines and Steel, Uche Ogar while the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen has also declared her ambition to contest for the senatorial seat in Plateau State. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, is also rumoured to be interested in running for governor of Gombe State. His counterpart in the Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has also purchased the N50 million APC nomination forms to succeed Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2023 gubernatorial polls. Though not a cabinet member, SaharaReporters gathered that Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) may also be affected by the presidential order. It is good that mannequin @Mbuhari has asked his lacklustre ministers contesting elections to resign, but it is also fair + ethical and I ask that Chief Coward @ProfOsinbajo MUST resign as well so that there is a level playing field for all aspirants. 